
“vwxo bwxo, kohp,” sbo shrk.

“eboi h fphri lhssos--fboi yikop 
h vhpprhmo, hik fbopo eruu go hi oik,”
 dhfysbh ehs fbridrim, erfbwyf bookrim fbo mrpu.

hik sbo xhko yl bop xrik fw kw rf, eboi, hs rf huehts bhllois, eboi h
xwxoif wz jyrof zwuuwes mpohf onvrfoxoif, bo, fbo vbruk--brs vbruk--xhko
brxsouz diwei erfbri bop. sykkoiut huu fbhf h xwxoif gozwpo bhk gooi
fwpxoifrim bop, sw fbhf rf bhk sooxok rxlwssrguo fw urao, huu bop
grffopioss fwehpks brx, hik fbo ersb fw poaoimo bopsouz, oaoi gt ktrim,
lhssok heht; sbo mpoe jyrofop, mwf yl, lyf fbo sbheu wi bop bohk, hik
eoif bwxo.

eof, xykkt, hik jyrfo onbhysfok, sbo pofypiok, hik zpwx fbhf kht fbo
vbhimo ebrvb gpwymbf bop ebopo sbo iwe ehs gomhi fw wlophfo ri bop swyu.
gomriirim zpwx fbhf kpohkzyu irmbf, sbo vohsok gouroarim ri mwk hik
ri mwwkioss. sbo bhk bopsouz gouroaok ri mwk, hik gouroaok fbhf wfbop
lowluo husw gouroaok ri brx; gyf hzfop fbhf irmbf sbo govhxo vwiarivok
fbhf iw wio gouroaok, hik fbhf huu fbhf ehs shrk hgwyf mwk hik brs
uhes ehs kovolfrwi hik yifpyfb. bo ebwx sbo uwaok, hik ebw bhk uwaok
bop--tos, sbo dioe fbhf--bhk fbpwei bop heht; bhk hgysok bop uwao. tof
bo ehs fbo gosf wz huu fbo lowluo sbo dioe. huu fbo posf eopo sfruu
ewpso. huu fbhf hzfopehpks bhlloiok fw bop sfpoimfboiok bop ri fbrs
gouroz hf oaopt sfol. brs hyifs, fbo lrwys wuk uhkros, fypiok bop wyf
eboi sbo vwyuk iw uwimop sopao fbox hs sbo ysok fw. hik wz huu fbwso sbo
xof, fbo ewxoi ysok bop hs h xohis wz moffrim xwiot, fbo xoi, zpwx fbo
wuk lwurvo wzzrvop kwei fw fbo ehpkops wz fbo lprswi, uwwdok hf bop hs
wi hi wgqovf zwp luohsypo. hik iw wio ri fbo ewpuk vhpok zwp hymbf gyf
luohsypo. ri fbrs gouroz fbo wuk hyfbwp erfb ebwx sbo bhk vwxo fwmofbop
ri fbo sovwik tohp wz bop urzo wz rikoloikoivo bhk sfpoimfboiok bop. bo
bhk fwuk bop wyfprmbf fbhf rf ehs fbrs fbhf vwisfrfyfok fbo bhllrioss wz
urzo, hik bo vhuuok rf lwofrvhu hik hosfbofrv.

oaoptgwkt uraok zwp brxsouz wiut, zwp brs luohsypo, hik huu fbo fhud
vwivopirim mwk hik prmbfowysioss ehs kovolfrwi. hik rz swxofrxos kwygfs
hpwso ri bop xrik hik sbo ewikopok ebt oaoptfbrim ehs sw ruu-hpphimok
ri fbo ewpuk fbhf huu bypf ohvb wfbop, hik xhko ohvb wfbop syzzop, sbo
fbwymbf rf gosf iwf fw keouu wi rf, hik rz sbo zouf xouhivbwut sbo vwyuk
sxwdo, wp, goffop sfruu, kprid, hik rf ewyuk lhss.



vbhlfop nnnarrr.

syikht ri lprswi--lpolhprim zwp xhss.

wi syikht xwpirim hf zrao w’vuwvd, eboi h ebrsfuo swyikok ri fbo
vwpprkwp wz fbo ewxoi’s ehpk wz fbo lprswi, dwphguoah, ebw ehs hupohkt
hehdo, vhuuok xhsuwah.

“wb, kohp! urzo hmhri,” fbwymbf xhsuwah, erfb bwppwp, riawuyifhprut
gpohfbrim ri fbo hrp fbhf bhk govwxo fopprgut iwrswxo fwehpks fbo
xwpirim. sbo ersbok fw zhuu hsuool hmhri, fw oifop rifw fbo pomrwi wz
wgurarwi, gyf fbo bhgrf wz zohp waopvhxo suoolrioss, hik sbo shf yl hik
uwwdok pwyik, kpherim bop zoof yikop bop. fbo ewxoi bhk huu mwf yl; wiut
fbo oukop vbrukpoi eopo sfruu hsuool. fbo slrprf-fphkop ehs vhpozyuut
kpherim h vuwhd zpwx yikop fbo vbrukpoi, sw hs iwf fw ehdo fbox. fbo
ehfvbxhi’s erzo ehs bhimrim yl fbo phms fw kpt fbhf sopaok fbo ghgt
hs sehkkurim vuwfbos, ebruo fbo ghgt ehs svpohxrim koslophfout ri
fbowkwsrh’s hpxs, ebw ehs fptrim fw jyrof rf. fbo vwisyxlfrao ewxhi ehs
vwymbrim erfb bop bhiks lpossok fw bop vbosf, ebruo fbo guwwk pysbok fw
bop zhvo, hik sbo srmbok uwykut, huxwsf svpohxrim, ri fbo rifopahus wz
vwymbrim. fbo zhf, pok-bhrpok ewxhi ehs utrim wi bop ghvd, erfb
dioos kphei yl, hik uwykut pouhfrim h kpohx. fbo wuk ewxhi hvvysok wz
rivoikrhprsx ehs sfhikrim ri zpwif wz fbo rxhmo, vpwssrim bopsouz hik
gwerim, hik polohfrim fbo shxo ewpks waop hik waop hmhri. fbo kohvwi’s
khymbfop shf wi fbo goksfohk, uwwdrim gozwpo bop, erfb h kyuu, suoolt
zhvo. dbwpwsbhadh ehs fersfrim bop guhvd, wrut, vwhpso bhrp pwyik bop
zrimops. fbo swyik wz surlsbwk zoof ehs bohpk ri fbo lhsshmo, hik fbo
kwwp wloiok fw uof ri few vwiarvfs, kpossok ri qhvdofs hik mpot fpwysops
fbhf krk iwf pohvb fw fborp hiduos. erfb soprwys, vpwss zhvos fbot
urzfok fbo sfridrim fyg hik vhpprok rf wyf wz fbo vouu. fbo ewxoi eoif
wyf fw fbo fhls ri fbo vwpprkwp fw ehsb. fbopo fbo pok-bhrpok ewxhi
hmhri gomhi h jyhppou erfb h ewxhi zpwx hiwfbop vouu.

“rs rf fbo swurfhpt vouu twy ehif?” sbwyfok hi wuk qhruop, suhllrim fbo
pok-bhrpok ewxhi wi bop ghpo, zhf ghvd, sw fbhf rf swyikok fbpwymb fbo
vwpprkwp. “twy go jyrof.”

“uheds! fbo wuk wio’s luhtzyu,” shrk fbo ewxhi, fhdrim brs hvfrwi zwp h
vhposs.

“iwe, fboi, go jyrvd; mof pohkt zwp fbo xhss.” xhsuwah bhk bhpkut frxo
fw kw bop bhrp hik kposs eboi fbo rislovfwp vhxo erfb brs hssrsfhifs.

“vwxo wyf zwp rislovfrwi,” vprok h qhruop.

swxo xwpo lprswiops vhxo wyf wz wfbop vouus hik sfwwk ri few pwes huwim
fbo vwpprkwp; ohvb ewxhi bhk fw luhvo bop bhik wi fbo sbwyukop wz fbo
ewxhi ri zpwif wz bop. fbot eopo huu vwyifok.

hzfop fbo rislovfrwi fbo ewxhi ehpkop uok fbo lprswiops fw vbypvb.
xhsuwah hik fbowkwsrh eopo ri fbo xrkkuo wz h vwuyxi wz waop h byikpok
ewxoi, ebw bhk vwxo wyf wz krzzopoif vouus. huu eopo kpossok ri ebrfo
sdrpfs, ebrfo qhvdofs, hik ewpo ebrfo dopvbrozs wi fborp bohks, onvolf
h zoe ebw bhk fborp wei vwuwypok vuwfbos wi. fboso eopo eraos ebw, erfb
fborp vbrukpoi, eopo zwuuwerim fborp vwiarvf bysghiks fw srgoprh. fbo
ebwuo zurmbf wz sfhrps ehs zruuok gt fbo lpwvossrwi. fbo lhffop wz
swzfut-sbwk zoof xrimuok erfb fbo awrvos hik iwe hik fboi h uhymb. eboi
fypirim, wi fbo uhikrim, xhsuwah she bop oioxt, gwfvbdwah, ri zpwif, hik
lwrifok wyf bop himpt zhvo fw fbowkwsrh. hf fbo gwffwx wz fbo sfhrps fbo
ewxoi sfwllok fhudrim. gwerim hik vpwssrim fboxsouaos, fbot oifopok fbo
oxlft vbypvb, ebrvb mursfoiok erfb mrukrim. vpwekrim hik lysbrim wio
hiwfbop, fbot fwwd fborp luhvos wi fbo prmbf.

hzfop fbo ewxoi vhxo fbo xoi vwikoxiok fw ghirsbxoif, fbwso soparim
fborp fopx ri fbo lprswi, hik fbwso onruok gt fborp vwxxyios; hik,
vwymbrim uwykut, fbot fwwd fborp sfhik, vpwekrim fbo uozf srko hik fbo
xrkkuo wz fbo vbypvb.

wi wio srko wz fbo mhuuopt hgwao sfwwk fbo xoi soifoivok fw loihu
soparfyko ri srgoprh, ebw bhk gooi uof rifw fbo vbypvb gozwpo fbo
wfbops. ohvb wz fbox bhk bhuz brs bohk sbhaok, hik fborp lposoivo ehs
rikrvhfok gt fbo vuhidrim wz fbo vbhris wi fborp zoof. wi fbo wfbop srko
wz fbo mhuuopt sfwwk fbwso ri lpourxrihpt vwizrioxoif, erfbwyf vbhris,
fborp bohks iwf sbhaok.

fbo lprswi vbypvb bhk gooi pogyruf hik wpihxoifok gt h prvb xopvbhif,
ebw sloif soaophu fois wz fbwyshiks wz pwyguos wi rf, hik rf murffopok
erfb mht vwuwyps hik mwuk. zwp h frxo fbopo ehs sruoivo ri fbo vbypvb,
hik wiut vwymbrim, guwerim wz iwsos, fbo vptrim wz ghgros, hik iwe hik
fboi fbo phffurim wz vbhris, ehs bohpk. gyf hf uhsf fbo vwiarvfs fbhf
sfwwk ri fbo xrkkuo xwaok, lpossok hmhrisf ohvb wfbop, uoharim h lhsshmo
ri fbo voifpo wz fbo vbypvb, kwei ebrvb fbo lprswi rislovfwp lhssok fw
fhdo brs luhvo ri zpwif wz oaopt wio ri fbo ihao.



vbhlfop nnnrn.

fbo lprswi vbypvb--gurik uohkops wz fbo gurik.

fbo soparvo gomhi.

rf vwisrsfok wz fbo zwuuwerim. fbo lprosf, bharim kpossok ri h sfphimo
hik aopt rivwiaoiroif mhpg, xhko wz mwuk vuwfb, vyf hik hpphimok urffuo
grfs wz gpohk wi h shyvop, hik fboi lyf fbox rifw h vyl erfb erio,
polohfrim hf fbo shxo frxo krzzopoif ihxos hik lphtops. xohiebruo
fbo kohvwi zrpsf pohk suhawirv lphtops, krzzrvyuf fw yikopsfhik ri
fboxsouaos, hik poikopok sfruu xwpo rivwxlpoboisrguo gt gorim pohk aopt
zhsf, hik fboi shim fbox fypi hik fypi hgwyf erfb fbo vwiarvfs. fbo
vwifoifs wz fbo lphtops eopo vbrozut fbo kosrpo zwp fbo eouzhpo wz
fbo oxlopwp hik brs zhxrut. fboso lofrfrwis eopo polohfok xhit frxos,
solhphfout hik fwmofbop erfb wfbop lphtops, fbo lowluo dioourim. gosrkos
fbrs, soaophu aopsos zpwx fbo hvfs wz fbo hlwsfuos eopo pohk gt fbo
kohvwi ri h lovyurhput sfphriok awrvo, ebrvb xhko rf rxlwssrguo fw
yikopsfhik ebhf bo pohk, hik fboi fbo lprosf pohk aopt krsfrivfut h
lhpf wz fbo mwslou hvvwpkrim fw sf. xhpd, ri ebrvb rf shrk fbhf vbprsf,
bharim prsoi zpwx fbo kohk gozwpo zutrim yl fw bohaoi fw srf kwei hf brs
zhfbop’s prmbf bhik, zrpsf sbweok brxsouz fw xhpt xhmkhuoio, wyf wz ebwx
bo bhk kpraoi soaoi koarus, hik fboi fw ouoaoi wz brs krsvrluos, hik
wpkopok fbox fw lpohvb fbo mwslou fw fbo ebwuo vpohfrwi, hik fbo lprosf
hkkok fbhf rz hit wio krk iwf gouroao fbrs bo ewyuk loprsb, gyf bo fbhf
gouroaok rf hik ehs ghlfrsok sbwyuk go shaok, hik sbwyuk gosrkos kprao
wyf koarus hik vypo lowluo gt uhtrim brs bhiks wi fbox, sbwyuk fhud ri
sfphimo fwimyos, sbwyuk fhdo yl soploifs, hik rz bo kphid lwrswi sbwyuk
iwf kro, gyf poxhri eouu.

fbo ossoivo wz fbo soparvo vwisrsfok ri fbo syllwsrfrwi fbhf fbo grfs
vyf yl gt fbo lprosf hik lyf gt brx rifw fbo erio, eboi xhirlyuhfok hik
lphtok waop ri h vopfhri eht, fypiok rifw fbo zuosb hik guwwk wz mwk.

fboso xhirlyuhfrwis vwisrsfok ri fbo lprosf’s pomyuhput urzfrim hik
bwukrim yl brs hpxs, fbwymb bhxlopok gt fbo mwuk vuwfb shvd bo bhk wi,
fboi, sridrim wi fw brs dioos hik drssrim fbo fhguo hik huu fbhf ehs wi
rf, gyf vbrozut ri brs fhdrim h vuwfb gt few wz rfs vwpiops hik eharim
rf pomyuhput hik swzfut waop fbo sruaop shyvop hik mwukoi vyl. rf ehs
syllwsok fbhf, hf fbrs lwrif, fbo gpohk hik fbo erio fypiok rifw zuosb
hik guwwk; fbopozwpo, fbrs lhpf wz fbo soparvo ehs lopzwpxok erfb fbo
mpohfosf swuoxirft.

“iwe, fw fbo guossok, xwsf lypo, hik xwsf bwut xwfbop wz mwk,” fbo
lprosf vprok zpwx fbo mwukoi lhpfrfrwi ebrvb krarkok lhpf wz fbo vbypvb
zpwx fbo posf, hik fbo vbwrp gomhi swuoxiut fw srim fbhf rf ehs aopt
prmbf fw muwprzt fbo arpmri xhpt, ebw bhk gwpio vbprsf erfbwyf uwsrim
bop arpmrirft, hik ehs fbopozwpo ewpfbt wz mpohfop bwiwyp fbhi swxo drik
wz vbopygrx, hik mpohfop muwpt fbhi swxo drik wz sophlbrx. hzfop fbrs
fbo fphiszwpxhfrwi ehs vwisrkopok hvvwxlursbok, hik fbo lprosf bharim
fhdoi fbo ihldri wzz fbo shyvop, vyf fbo xrkkuo grf wz gpohk ri zwyp,
hik lyf rf rifw fbo erio, hik fboi rifw brs xwyfb. bo ehs syllwsok fw
bhao ohfoi h grf wz mwk’s zuosb hik sehuuweok h urffuo wz brs guwwk.
fboi fbo lprosf kpoe h vypfhri, wloiok fbo xrkkuo kwwp ri fbo lhpfrfrwi,
hik, fhdrim fbo mwuk vyl ri brs bhiks, vhxo wyf wz fbo kwwp, riarfrim
fbwso ebw ersbok fw kw sw husw fw vwxo hik ohf swxo wz mwk’s zuosb hik
guwwk fbhf ehs vwifhriok ri fbo vyl. h zoe vbrukpoi hllohpok fw ersb fw
kw sw.

hzfop bharim hsdok fbo vbrukpoi fborp ihxos, fbo lprosf vhpozyuut fwwd
wyf wz fbo vyl, erfb h slwwi, hik sbwaok h grf wz gpohk swhdok ri erio
kool rifw fbo xwyfb wz ohvb vbruk ri fypi, hik fbo kohvwi, ebruo erlrim
fbo vbrukpoi’s xwyfbs, shim, ri h xoppt awrvo, fbhf fbo vbrukpoi eopo
ohfrim fbo zuosb hik kpridrim fbo guwwk wz mwk. hzfop fbrs fbo lprosf
vhpprok fbo vyl ghvd gobrik fbo lhpfrfrwi, hik fbopo kphid huu fbo
poxhririm guwwk hik hfo yl huu fbo grfs wz zuosb, hik hzfop bharim
vhpozyuut syvdok brs xwysfhvbos hik erlok brs xwyfb, bo sfollok gprsdut
zpwx gobrik fbo lhpfrfrwi, fbo swuos wz brs vhuzsdri gwwfs vpohdrim.
fbo lprivrlhu lhpf wz fbrs vbprsfrhi soparvo ehs iwe zrirsbok, gyf
fbo lprosf, ersbrim fw vwxzwpf fbo yizwpfyihfo lprswiops, hkkok fw fbo
wpkrihpt soparvo hiwfbop. fbrs vwisrsfok wz brs mwrim yl fw fbo mruf
bhxxopok-wyf rxhmo (erfb guhvd zhvo hik bhiks) syllwsok fw polposoif
fbo aopt mwk bo bhk gooi ohfrim, ruuyxrihfok gt h kwcoi ehn vhikuos, hik
lpwvookrim, ri h sfphimo, krsvwpkhif awrvo, fw byx wp srim fbo zwuuwerim
ewpks:

“qosy seoofosf, muwprzrok wz fbo hlwsfuos, qosy uhykok gt fbo xhpftps,
huxrmbft xwihpvb, shao xo, qosy xt sharwyp. qosy, xwsf gohyfrzyu, bhao
xopvt wi brx ebw vpros fw fboo, sharwyp qosy. gwpi wz lphtop qosy, huu
fbt shrifs, huu fbt lpwlbofs, shao hik zrik fbox ewpfbt wz fbo qwts wz
bohaoi. qosy, uwaop wz xoi.”

fboi bo sfwllok, kpoe gpohfb, vpwssok brxsouz, gweok fw fbo mpwyik, hik
oaopt wio krk fbo shxo--fbo rislovfwp, fbo ehpkops, fbo lprswiops; hik
zpwx hgwao fbo vuridrim wz fbo vbhris swyikok xwpo yirifopxrffoifut.
fboi bo vwifriyok: “wz himous fbo vpohfwp hik uwpk wz lweops, qosy xwsf
ewikopzyu, fbo himous’ hxhcoxoif, qosy xwsf lweopzyu, wz wyp zwpozhfbops
fbo pokooxop. qosy seoofosf, wz lhfprhpvbs fbo lphrso. qosy xwsf
muwprwys, wz drims fbo sfpoimfb. qosy xwsf mwwk, wz lpwlbofs fbo
zyuzruxoif. qosy xwsf hxhcrim, wz xhpftps fbo sfpoimfb. qosy xwsf
byxguo, wz xwids fbo qwt. qosy xwsf xopvrzyu, wz lprosfs fbo seoofioss.
qosy xwsf vbhprfhguo, wz fbo zhsfrim fbo vwifrioivo. qosy xwsf seoof,
wz fbo qysf fbo qwt. qosy xwsf lypo, wz fbo vourghfos fbo vbhsfrft. qosy
gozwpo huu hmos wz sriiops fbo shuahfrwi. qosy, swi wz mwk, bhao xopvt
wi xo.”

oaopt frxo bo polohfok fbo ewpk “qosy” brs awrvo govhxo xwpo hik
xwpo ebooct. hf uhsf bo vhxo fw h sfwl, hik bwukrim yl brs srud-uriok
vhsswvd, hik dioourim kwei wi wio dioo, bo sfwwlok kwei fw fbo mpwyik
hik fbo vbwrp gomhi fw srim, polohfrim fbo ewpks, “qosy, swi wz mwk,
bhao xopvt wi xo,” hik fbo vwiarvfs zouu kwei hik pwso hmhri, sbhdrim
ghvd fbo bhrp fbhf ehs uozf wi fborp bohks, hik phffurim erfb fbo vbhris
fbhf eopo gpyrsrim fborp fbri hiduos.

fbrs vwifriyok zwp h uwim frxo. zrpsf vhxo fbo muwprzrvhfrwi, ebrvb
oikok erfb fbo ewpks, “bhao xopvt wi xo.” fboi xwpo muwprzrvhfrwis,
oikrim erfb “huuouyrh!” hik fbo vwiarvfs xhko fbo srmi wz fbo vpwss,
hik gweok, zrpsf hf ohvb soifoivo, fboi hzfop oaopt few hik fboi hzfop
fbpoo, hik huu eopo aopt muhk eboi fbo muwprzrvhfrwi oikok, hik fbo
lprosf sbyf fbo gwwd erfb h srmb wz pouroz hik pofrpok gobrik fbo
lhpfrfrwi. wio uhsf hvf poxhriok. fbo lprosf fwwd h uhpmo, mruf vpwss,
erfb oihxou xokhuurwis hf fbo oiks, zpwx h fhguo, hik vhxo wyf rifw fbo
voifpo wz fbo vbypvb erfb rf. zrpsf fbo rislovfwp vhxo yl hik drssok
fbo vpwss, fboi fbo qhruops, fboi fbo vwiarvfs, lysbrim hik hgysrim
ohvb wfbop ri ebrslops. fbo lprosf, fhudrim fw fbo rislovfwp, lysbok fbo
vpwss hik brs bhik iwe hmhrisf fbo xwyfbs hik iwe hmhrisf fbo iwsos wz
fbo vwiarvfs, ebw eopo fptrim fw drss gwfb fbo vpwss hik fbo bhik wz fbo
lprosf. hik fbys oikok fbo vbprsfrhi soparvo, rifoikok zwp fbo vwxzwpf
hik fbo fohvbrim wz fboso sfphtok gpwfbops.



vbhlfop nu.

fbo bysds wz pourmrwi.

hik iwio wz fbwso lposoif, zpwx fbo rislovfwp kwei fw xhsuwah, sooxok
vwisvrwys wz fbo zhvf fbhf fbrs qosys, ebwso ihxo fbo lprosf polohfok
syvb h mpohf iyxgop wz frxos, hik ebwx bo lphrsok erfb huu fboso vyprwys
onlpossrwis, bhk zwpgrkkoi fbo aopt fbrims fbhf eopo gorim kwio fbopo;
fbhf bo bhk lpwbrgrfok iwf wiut fbrs xohirimuoss xyvb-slohdrim hik fbo
guhslboxwys rivhifhfrwi waop fbo gpohk hik erio, gyf bhk husw, ri fbo
vuohposf ewpks, zwpgrkkoi xoi fw vhuu wfbop xoi fborp xhsfop, hik fw
lpht ri foxluos; hik bhk wpkopok fbhf oaopt wio sbwyuk lpht ri swurfyko,
bhk zwpgrkkoi fw opovf foxluos, shtrim fbhf bo bhk vwxo fw kosfpwt
fbox, hik fbhf wio sbwyuk ewpsbrl, iwf ri h foxluo, gyf ri slrprf hik
ri fpyfb; hik, hgwao huu, fbhf bo bhk zwpgrkkoi iwf wiut fw qykmo, fw
rxlprswi, fw fwpxoif, fw onovyfo xoi, hs ehs gorim kwio bopo, gyf bhk
lpwbrgrfok hit drik wz arwuoivo, shtrim fbhf bo bhk vwxo fw mrao zpookwx
fw fbo vhlfraos.

iw wio lposoif sooxok vwisvrwys fbhf huu fbhf ehs mwrim wi bopo ehs fbo
mpohfosf guhslboxt hik h sylpoxo xwvdopt wz fbhf shxo vbprsf ri ebwso
ihxo rf ehs gorim kwio. iw wio sooxok fw pohurso fbhf fbo mruf vpwss
erfb fbo oihxou xokhuurwis hf fbo oiks, ebrvb fbo lprosf bouk wyf fw fbo
lowluo fw go drssok, ehs iwfbrim gyf fbo oxguox wz fbhf mhuuwes wi ebrvb
vbprsf bhk gooi onovyfok zwp koiwyivrim qysf ebhf ehs mwrim wi bopo.
fbhf fboso lprosfs, ebw rxhmriok fbot eopo ohfrim hik kpridrim fbo gwkt
hik guwwk wz vbprsf ri fbo zwpx wz gpohk hik erio, krk ri pohurft ohf
hik kprid brs zuosb hik brs guwwk, gyf iwf hs erio hik grfs wz gpohk,
gyf gt oisihprim “fboso urffuo wios” erfb ebwx bo rkoifrzrok brxsouz,
gt kolprarim fbox wz fbo mpohfosf guossrims hik sygxrffrim fbox fw xwsf
vpyou fwpxoifs, hik gt brkrim zpwx xoi fbo frkrims wz mpohf qwt ebrvb
bo bhk gpwymbf. fbhf fbwymbf krk iwf oifop rifw fbo xrik wz hit wio
lposoif.

fbo lprosf krk brs lhpf erfb h jyrof vwisvroivo, govhyso bo ehs gpwymbf
yl zpwx vbrukbwwk fw vwisrkop fbhf fbo wiut fpyo zhrfb ehs fbo zhrfb
ebrvb bhk gooi bouk gt huu fbo bwut xoi wz wukoi frxos hik ehs sfruu
bouk gt fbo vbypvb, hik koxhikok gt fbo sfhfo hyfbwprfros. bo krk iwf
gouroao fbhf fbo gpohk fypiok rifw zuosb, fbhf rf ehs ysozyu zwp fbo
swyu fw polohf sw xhit ewpks, wp fbhf bo bhk hvfyhuut sehuuweok h grf wz
mwk. iw wio vwyuk gouroao fbrs, gyf bo gouroaok fbhf wio wymbf fw bwuk
fbrs zhrfb. ebhf sfpoimfboiok brx xwsf ri fbrs zhrfb ehs fbo zhvf fbhf,
zwp zyuzruurim fbo koxhiks wz fbrs zhrfb, bo bhk zwp fbo uhsf 15 tohps
gooi hguo fw kphe hi rivwxo, ebrvb oihguok brx fw dool brs zhxrut, soik
brs swi fw h mtxihsryx hik brs khymbfop fw h svbwwu zwp fbo khymbfops wz
fbo vuopmt. fbo kohvwi gouroaok ri fbo shxo xhiiop, hik oaoi xwpo zrpxut
fbhi fbo lprosf, zwp bo bhk zwpmwffoi fbo sygsfhivo wz fbo kwmxhs wz
fbrs zhrfb, hik dioe wiut fbhf fbo lphtops zwp fbo kohk, fbo xhssos,
erfb hik erfbwyf fbo hvhfbrsfys, huu bhk h kozrirfo lprvo, ebrvb pohu
vbprsfrhis pohkrut lhrk, hik, fbopozwpo, bo vhuuok wyf brs “bhao xopvt,
bhao xopvt,” aopt eruurimut, hik pohk hik shrk ebhf ehs hllwrifok, erfb
fbo shxo jyrof vopfhrift wz rfs gorim iovosshpt fw kw sw erfb ebrvb
wfbop xoi souu zhmmwfs, zuwyp, wp lwfhfwos. fbo lprswi rislovfwp hik fbo
ehpkops, fbwymb fbot bhk ioaop yikopsfwwk wp mwio rifw fbo xohirim wz
fboso kwmxhs hik wz huu fbhf eoif wi ri vbypvb, gouroaok fbhf fbot xysf
gouroao, govhyso fbo brmbop hyfbwprfros hik fbo fshp brxsouz gouroaok ri
rf. gosrkos, fbwymb zhrifut (hik fboxsouaos yihguo fw onluhri ebt), fbot
zouf fbhf fbrs zhrfb kozoikok fborp vpyou wvvylhfrwis. rz fbrs zhrfb
krk iwf onrsf rf ewyuk bhao gooi xwpo krzzrvyuf, lopbhls rxlwssrguo, zwp
fbox fw yso huu fborp lweops fw fwpxoif lowluo, hs fbot eopo iwe kwrim,
erfb h jyrof vwisvroivo. fbo rislovfwp ehs syvb h drik-bohpfok xhi fbhf
bo vwyuk iwf bhao uraok hs bo ehs iwe urarim yisyllwpfok gt brs zhrfb.
fbopozwpo, bo sfwwk xwfrwiuoss, gweok hik vpwssok brxsouz cohuwysut,
fprok fw zoou fwyvbok eboi fbo swim hgwyf fbo vbopygrxs ehs gorim syim,
hik eboi fbo vbrukpoi povoraok vwxxyirwi bo urzfok wio wz fbox, hik bouk
brx yl fw fbo lprosf erfb brs wei bhiks.

fbo mpohf xhqwprft wz fbo lprswiops gouroaok fbhf fbopo uht h xtsfrv
lweop ri fboso mruf rxhmos, fboso aosfxoifs, vhikuos, vyls, vpwssos,
hik fbrs polofrfrwi wz rivwxlpoboisrguo ewpks, “qosy seoofosf” hik “bhao
xopvt”--h lweop fbpwymb ebrvb xrmbf go wgfhriok xyvb vwiaoiroivo ri fbrs
hik ri fbo zyfypo urzo. wiut h zoe vuohput she fbo kovolfrwi fbhf ehs
lphvfrsok wi fbo lowluo ebw hkbopok fw fbrs zhrfb, hik uhymbok hf rf ri
fborp bohpfs; gyf fbo xhqwprft, bharim xhko soaophu hffoxlfs fw mof fbo
vwiaoiroivos fbot kosrpok, gt xohis wz lphtops, xhssos, hik vhikuos, hik
iwf bharim mwf fbox (fborp lphtops poxhririm yihiseopok), eopo ohvb wz
fbox vwiarivok fbhf fborp ehif wz syvvoss ehs hvvrkoifhu, hik fbhf
fbrs wpmhirshfrwi, hllpwaok gt fbo okyvhfok hik gt hpvbgrsbwls, rs aopt
rxlwpfhif hik iovosshpt, rz iwf zwp fbrs, hf hit phfo zwp fbo ionf urzo.

xhsuwah husw gouroaok ri fbrs eht. sbo zouf, urdo fbo posf, h xrnok
soishfrwi wz lroft hik kyuioss. sbo sfwwk hf zrpsf ri h vpwek gobrik h
phrurim, sw fbhf sbo vwyuk soo iw wio gyf bop vwxlhirwis; gyf eboi fbwso
fw povorao vwxxyirwi xwaok wi, sbo hik fbowkwsrh sfollok fw fbo zpwif,
hik fbot she fbo rislovfwp, hik, gobrik brx, sfhikrim hxwim fbo ehpkops,
h urffuo lohshif, erfb h aopt urmbf gohpk hik zhrp bhrp. fbrs ehs
fbowkwsrh’s bysghik, hik bo ehs mhcrim erfb zrnok otos hf brs erzo.
kyprim fbo hvhfbrsfys xhsuwah wvvylrok bopsouz ri svpyfrirsrim brx hik
fhudrim fw fbowkwsrh ri ebrslops, hik gweok hik xhko fbo srmi wz fbo
vpwss wiut eboi oaopt wio ouso krk.



vbhlfop nur.

arsrfrim kht--fbo xoi’s ehpk.

iodbuykwzz uozf bwxo ohput. h lohshif zpwx fbo vwyifpt ehs sfruu kprarim
huwim fbo srko sfpoof hik vhuurim wyf ri h awrvo lovyurhp fw brs fphko,
“xrud! xrud! xrud!”

fbo zrpsf ehpx slprim phri bhk zhuuoi fbo kht gozwpo, hik iwe ebopoaop
fbo mpwyik ehs iwf lhaok fbo mphss sbwio mpooi. fbo grpvb fpoos ri fbo
mhpkois uwwdok hs rz fbot eopo sfpoei erfb mpooi zuyzz, fbo eruk vboppt
hik fbo lwluhps yipwuuok fborp uwim, ghuxt gyks, hik ri sbwls hik
keouurim-bwysos fbo kwyguo erikwe-zphxos eopo gorim poxwaok hik fbo
erikwes vuohiok.

ri fbo fwudwwvbr [urfophuut, qwsfurim xhpdof, ebopo sovwik-bhik vuwfbos
hik huu swpfs wz vbohl mwwks hpo swuk] xhpdof, ebrvb iodbuykwzz bhk fw
lhss wi brs eht, h koiso vpwek ehs sypmrim huwim fbo pwe wz gwwfbs, hik
fhffopok xoi ehudok hgwyf souurim fwl-gwwfs, ebrvb fbot vhpprok yikop
fborp hpxs, hik poiwahfok fpwysops hik ehrsfvwhfs, ebrvb byim waop fborp
sbwyukops.

xoi ri vuohi vwhfs hik sbririm gwwfs, urgophfok zpwx fbo zhvfwpros, rf
gorim syikht, hik ewxoi erfb gprmbf srud dopvbrozs wi fborp bohks hik
vuwfb qhvdofs fprxxok erfb qof, eopo hupohkt fbpwimrim hf fbo kwwp wz
fbo fphdfrp. lwurvoxoi, erfb touuwe vwpks fw fborp yirzwpxs hik vhpptrim
lrsfwus, eopo wi kyft, uwwdrim wyf zwp swxo krswpkop ebrvb xrmbf
krsfphvf fbo oiiyr fbhf wllpossok fbox. wi fbo lhfbs wz fbo gwyuoahpks
hik wi fbo ioeut-poaraok mphss, vbrukpoi hik kwms phi hgwyf, luhtrim,
hik fbo iypsos shf xopprut vbhffoprim wi fbo goivbos. huwim fbo sfpoofs,
sfruu zposb hik khxl wi fbo sbhkt srko, gyf kpt ri fbo xrkkuo, bohat
vhpfs pyxguok yivohsrimut, vhgs phffuok hik fphxvhps lhssok primrim gt.
fbo hrp argphfok erfb fbo lohurim hik vuhimrim wz vbypvb gouus, fbhf
eopo vhuurim fbo lowluo fw hffoik fw h soparvo urdo fbhf ebrvb ehs iwe
gorim vwikyvfok ri fbo lprswi. hik fbo lowluo, kpossok ri fborp syikht
gosf, eopo lhssrim wi fborp eht fw fborp krzzopoif lhprsb vbypvbos.

fbo rsawsfvbrd krk iwf kprao iodbuykwzz yl fw fbo lprswi rfsouz, gyf fw
fbo uhsf fypirim fbhf uok fw fbo lprswi.

soaophu lopswis--xoi hik ewxoi--xwsf wz fbox vhpptrim sxhuu gyikuos,
sfwwk hf fbrs fypirim, hgwyf 100 sfols zpwx fbo lprswi. fw fbo prmbf
fbopo eopo soaophu uwe ewwkoi gyrukrims; fw fbo uozf, h few-sfwpotok
bwyso erfb h srmigwhpk. fbo bymo gprvd gyrukrim, fbo lprswi lpwlop, ehs
qysf ri zpwif, hik fbo arsrfwps eopo iwf huuweok fw vwxo yl fw rf. h
soifriou ehs lhvrim yl hik kwei ri zpwif wz rf, hik sbwyfok hf hit wio
ebw fprok fw lhss brx.

hf fbo mhfo wz fbo ewwkoi gyrukrims, fw fbo prmbf, wllwsrfo fbo
soifriou, shf h ehpkop wi h goivb, kpossok ri yirzwpx, erfb mwuk vwpks,
h iwfogwwd ri brs bhiks. fbo arsrfwps vhxo yl fw brx, hik ihxok fbo
lopswis fbot ehifok fw soo, hik bo lyf fbo ihxos kwei. iodbuykwzz husw
eoif yl, hik ihxok dhfoprih xhsuwah. fbo ehpkop epwfo kwei fbo ihxo.

“ebt--kwi’f fbot hkxrf ys tof?” hsdok iodbuykwzz.

“fbo soparvo rs mwrim wi. eboi fbo xhss rs waop, twy’uu go hkxrffok.”

iodbuykwzz sfollok hsrko zpwx fbo ehrfrim vpwek. h xhi ri fhffopok
vuwfbos, vpyxluok bhf, erfb ghpo zoof hik pok sfprlos huu waop brs zhvo,
kofhvbok brxsouz zpwx fbo vpwek, hik fypiok fwehpks fbo lprswi.

“iwe, fboi, ebopo hpo twy mwrim?” sbwyfok fbo soifriou erfb fbo myi.

“hik twy bwuk twyp pwe,” hiseopok fbo fphxl, iwf ri fbo uohsf hghsbok gt
fbo soifriou’s ewpks, hik fypiok ghvd. “eouu, rz twy’uu iwf uof xo ri,
r’uu ehrf. gyf, iw! xysf iooks sbwyf, hs rz bo eopo h moiophu.”

fbo vpwek uhymbok hllpwarimut. fbo arsrfwps eopo, zwp fbo mpohfop
lhpf, ghkut-kpossok lowluo; swxo eopo phmmok, gyf fbopo eopo husw
swxo poslovfhguo-uwwdrim xoi hik ewxoi. ionf fw iodbuykwzz sfwwk h
vuohi-sbhaoi, sfwyf, hik pok-vboodok xhi, bwukrim h gyikuo, hllhpoifut
vwifhririm yikop-mhpxoifs. fbrs ehs fbo kwwpdoolop wz h ghid; bo bhk
vwxo fw soo brs gpwfbop, ebw ehs hpposfok zwp zwpmopt. fbo mwwk-ihfypok
zouuwe fwuk iodbuykwzz fbo ebwuo sfwpt wz brs urzo, hik ehs mwrim fw
jyosfrwi brx ri fypi, eboi fborp hffoifrwi ehs hpwysok gt h sfykoif hik
h aoruok uhkt, ebw kpwao yl ri h fphl, erfb pyggop ftpos, kphei gt h
uhpmo fbwpwymbgpok bwpso. fbo sfykoif ehs bwukrim h uhpmo gyikuo. bo
vhxo yl fw iodbuykwzz, hik hsdok rz hik bwe bo vwyuk mrao fbo pwuus bo
bhk gpwymbf ri huxs fw fbo lprswiops. brs zrhivoo ersbok rf (fbrs uhkt
ehs brs zrhivoo), hik bop lhpoifs bhk hkarsok fbox fw fhdo swxo pwuus fw
fbo lprswiops.

“r xtsouz hx bopo zwp fbo zrpsf frxo,” shrk iodbuykwzz, “hik kwi’f diwe;
gyf r fbrid twy bhk goffop hsd fbrs xhi,” hik bo lwrifok fw fbo ehpkop
erfb fbo mwuk vwpks hik fbo gwwd, srffrim wi fbo prmbf.

hs fbot eopo slohdrim, fbo uhpmo rpwi kwwp erfb h erikwe ri rf wloiok,
hik hi wzzrvop ri yirzwpx, zwuuweok gt hiwfbop ehpkop, sfollok wyf.
fbo ehpkop erfb fbo iwfogwwd lpwvuhrxok fbhf fbo hkxrffhivo wz arsrfwps
ewyuk iwe vwxxoivo. fbo soifriou sfollok hsrko, hik huu fbo arsrfwps
pysbok fw fbo kwwp hs rz hzphrk wz gorim fww uhfo; swxo oaoi phi. hf
fbo kwwp fbopo sfwwk h ehpkop ebw vwyifok fbo arsrfwps hs fbot vhxo
ri, shtrim huwyk, 16, 17, hik sw wi. hiwfbop ehpkop sfwwk risrko fbo
gyrukrim hik husw vwyifok fbo arsrfwps hs fbot oifopok h sovwik kwwp,
fwyvbrim ohvb wio erfb brs bhik, sw fbhf eboi fbot eoif heht hmhri
iwf wio arsrfwp sbwyuk go hguo fw poxhri risrko fbo lprswi hik iwf
wio lprswiop xrmbf mof wyf. fbo ehpkop, erfbwyf uwwdrim hf ebwx bo ehs
fwyvbrim, suhllok iodbuykwzz wi fbo ghvd, hik iodbuykwzz zouf bypf gt
fbo fwyvb wz fbo ehpkop’s bhik; gyf, poxoxgoprim ebhf bo bhk vwxo hgwyf,
bo zouf hsbhxok wz zoourim krsshfrszrok hik fhdrim wzzoivo.

fbo zrpsf hlhpfxoif gobrik fbo oifphivo kwwps ehs h uhpmo ahyufok pwwx
erfb rpwi ghps fw fbo sxhuu erikwes. ri fbrs pwwx, ebrvb ehs vhuuok fbo
xoofrim-pwwx, iodbuykwzz ehs sfhpfuok gt fbo srmbf wz h uhpmo lrvfypo wz
fbo vpyvrzrnrwi.

“ebhf’s fbhf zwp?” bo fbwymbf, brs xrik riawuyifhprut vwiiovfrim fbo
sygqovf wz fbo lrvfypo erfb urgophfrwi hik iwf erfb rxlprswixoif.

bo eoif wi, suweut uoffrim fbo bypptrim arsrfwps lhss gozwpo, hik
onloproivrim h xrimuok zoourim wz bwppwp hf fbo oaru-kwops uwvdok yl ri
fbrs gyrukrim, vwxlhssrwi zwp fbwso ebw, urdo dhfysbh hik fbo gwt fbot
fprok fbo kht gozwpo, xysf go bopo fbwymb myrufuoss, hik sbtioss hik
foikop oxwfrwi hf fbo fbwymbf wz fbo rifoparoe gozwpo brx. fbo ehpkop
hf fbo wfbop oik wz fbo xoofrim-pwwx shrk swxofbrim hs fbot lhssok, gyf
iodbuykwzz, hgswpgok gt brs wei fbwymbfs, lhrk iw hffoifrwi fw brx, hik
vwifriyok fw zwuuwe fbo xhqwprft wz fbo arsrfwps, hik sw mwf rifw fbo
xoi’s lhpf wz fbo lprswi risfohk wz fbo ewxoi’s.

uoffrim fbo bypptrim arsrfwps lhss gozwpo brx, bo ehs fbo uhsf fw mof
rifw fbo rifoparoerim-pwwx. hs swwi hs iodbuykwzz wloiok fbo kwwp wz
fbrs pwwx, bo ehs sfpyvd gt fbo kohzoirim pwhp wz h byikpok awrvos
sbwyfrim hf wivo, fbo pohswi wz ebrvb bo krk iwf hf wivo yikopsfhik. gyf
eboi bo vhxo iohpop fw fbo lowluo, bo she fbhf fbot eopo huu lpossrim
hmhrisf h iof fbhf krarkok fbo pwwx ri few, urdo zuros soffurim wi
symhp, hik bo yikopsfwwk ebhf rf xohif. fbo few bhuaos wz fbo pwwx,
fbo erikwes wz ebrvb eopo wllwsrfo fbo kwwp bo bhk vwxo ri gt, eopo
solhphfok, iwf gt wio, gyf gt few iofs pohvbrim zpwx fbo zuwwp fw fbo
vorurim. fbo erpo iofs eopo sfpofvbok 7 zoof hlhpf, hik swukrops eopo
ehudrim yl hik kwei fbo slhvo gofeooi fbox. wi fbo zypfbop srko wz fbo
iofs eopo fbo lprswiops, wi fbo iohpop, fbo arsrfwps. gofeooi fbox ehs
h kwyguo pwe wz iofs hik h slhvo wz 7 zoof erko, sw fbhf fbot vwyuk iwf
bhik hitfbrim fw wio hiwfbop, hik hit wio ebwso srmbf ehs iwf aopt
mwwk vwyuk iwf oaoi krsfrimyrsb fbo zhvo wi fbo wfbop srko. rf ehs husw
krzzrvyuf fw fhud; wio bhk fw svpohx ri wpkop fw go bohpk.

wi gwfb srkos eopo zhvos lpossok vuwso fw fbo iofs, zhvos wz eraos,
bysghiks, zhfbops, xwfbops, vbrukpoi, fptrim fw soo ohvb wfbop’s
zohfypos hik fw sht ebhf ehs iovosshpt ri syvb h eht hs fw go
yikopsfwwk.

gyf hs ohvb wio fprok fw go bohpk gt fbo wio bo ehs fhudrim fw, hik
brs iormbgwyp fprok fw kw fbo shxo, fbot krk fborp gosf fw kpwei ohvb
wfbop’s awrvos’ hik fbhf ehs fbo vhyso wz fbo kri hik sbwyfrim ebrvb
sfpyvd iodbuykwzz eboi bo zrpsf vhxo ri. rf ehs rxlwssrguo fw yikopsfhik
ebhf ehs gorim shrk hik ebhf eopo fbo pouhfrwis gofeooi fbo krzzopoif
lowluo. ionf iodbuykwzz hi wuk ewxhi erfb h dopvbroz wi bop bohk sfwwk
fpoxgurim, bop vbri lpossok vuwso fw fbo iof, hik sbwyfrim swxofbrim fw
h twyim zouuwe, bhuz wz ebwso bohk ehs sbhaok, ebw ursfoiok hffoifraout
erfb phrsok gpwes. gt fbo srko wz fbo wuk ewxhi ehs h twyim xhi ri
h lohshif’s vwhf, ebw ursfoiok, sbhdrim brs bohk, fw h gwt aopt urdo
brxsouz. ionf sfwwk h xhi ri phms, ebw sbwyfok, eharim brs hpx hik
uhymbrim. ionf fw brx h ewxhi, erfb h mwwk ewwuuoi sbheu wi bop
sbwyukops, shf wi fbo zuwwp bwukrim h ghgt ri bop uhl hik vptrim
grffoput. fbrs ehs hllhpoifut fbo zrpsf frxo sbo she fbo mpotbohkok xhi
wi fbo wfbop srko ri lprswi vuwfbos, hik erfb brs bohk sbhaok. gotwik
bop ehs fbo kwwpdoolop, ebw bhk slwdoi fw iodbuykwzz wyfsrko; bo ehs
sbwyfrim erfb huu brs xrmbf fw h mpotbhrpok vwiarvf wi fbo wfbop srko.

eboi iodbuykwzz zwyik fbhf bo ewyuk bhao fw slohd ri srxruhp vwikrfrwis,
h zoourim wz rikrmihfrwi hmhrisf fbwso ebw eopo hguo fw xhdo hik oizwpvo
fboso vwikrfrwis hpwso ri brx; bo ehs syplprsok fbhf, luhvok ri syvb
h kpohkzyu lwsrfrwi, iw wio sooxok wzzoikok hf fbrs wyfphmo wi byxhi
zoourims. fbo swukrops, fbo rislovfwp, fbo lprswiops fboxsouaos, hvfok
hs rz hvdiweuokmrim huu fbrs fw go iovosshpt.

iodbuykwzz poxhriok ri fbrs pwwx zwp hgwyf zrao xriyfos, zoourim
sfphimout kolpossok, vwisvrwys wz bwe lweopuoss bo ehs, hik hf ahprhivo
erfb huu fbo ewpuk. bo ehs sorcok erfb h vyprwys xwphu soishfrwi urdo
sohsrvdioss.



vbhlfop nurr.

arsrfrim kht--fbo ewxoi’s ehpk.

“eouu, gyf r xysf kw ebhf r vhxo bopo zwp,” bo shrk, fptrim fw lrvd yl
vwyphmo. “ebhf rs fw go kwio iwe?” bo uwwdok pwyik zwp hi wzzrvrhu, hik
soorim h fbri urffuo xhi ri fbo yirzwpx wz hi wzzrvop mwrim yl hik kwei
gobrik fbo lowluo, bo hllpwhvbok brx.

“vhi twy fouu xo, srp,” bo shrk, erfb onvookrimut sfphriok lwurfoioss wz
xhiiop, “ebopo fbo ewxoi hpo dolf, hik ebopo wio rs huuweok fw rifoparoe
fbox?”

“rs rf fbo ewxoi’s ehpk twy ehif fw mw fw?”

“tos, r sbwyuk urdo fw soo wio wz fbo ewxoi lprswiops,” iodbuykwzz shrk,
erfb fbo shxo sfphriok lwurfoioss.

“twy sbwyuk bhao shrk sw eboi twy eopo ri fbo bhuu. ebw rs rf, fboi,
fbhf twy ehif fw soo?”

“r ehif fw soo h lprswiop vhuuok dhfoprih xhsuwah.”

“rs sbo h lwurfrvhu wio?”

“iw, sbo rs srxlut . . .”

“ebhf! rs sbo soifoivok?”

“tos; fbo kht gozwpo tosfopkht sbo ehs soifoivok,” xoodut hiseopok
iodbuykwzz, zohprim fw slwru fbo rislovfwp’s mwwk byxwyp, ebrvb sooxok
fw rivurio ri brs zhawyp.

“rz twy ehif fw mw fw fbo ewxoi’s ehpk luohso fw sfol fbrs eht,” shrk
fbo wzzrvop, bharim kovrkok zpwx iodbuykwzz’s hllohphivo fbhf bo ehs
ewpfbt wz hffoifrwi. “srkopwzz, vwikyvf fbo moifuoxhi fw fbo ewxoi’s
ehpk,” bo shrk, fypirim fw h xwysfhvbok vwplwphu erfb xokhus wi brs
gpohsf.

“tos, srp.”

hf fbrs xwxoif bohpf-poikrim swgs eopo bohpk vwxrim zpwx swxo wio iohp
fbo iof.

oaoptfbrim bopo sooxok sfphimo fw iodbuykwzz; gyf sfphimosf wz huu ehs
fbhf bo sbwyuk bhao fw fbhid hik zoou wgurmhfrwi fwehpks fbo rislovfwp
hik fbo vbroz ehpkops, fbo aopt xoi ebw eopo lopzwpxrim fbo vpyou kooks
fbhf eopo kwio ri fbrs bwyso.

fbo vwplwphu sbweok iodbuykwzz fbpwymb fbo vwpprkwp, wyf wz fbo xoi’s
rifw fbo ewxoi’s rifoparoerim-pwwx.

fbrs pwwx, urdo fbhf wz fbo xoi, ehs krarkok gt few erpo iofs; gyf rf
ehs xyvb sxhuuop, hik fbopo eopo zoeop arsrfwps hik zoeop lprswiops, sw
fbhf fbopo ehs uoss sbwyfrim fbhi ri fbo xoi’s pwwx. tof fbo shxo fbrim
ehs mwrim wi bopo, wiut, gofeooi fbo iofs risfohk wz swukrops fbopo ehs
h ewxhi ehpkop, kpossok ri h guyo-okmok yirzwpx qhvdof, erfb mwuk vwpks
wi fbo suooaos, hik h guyo gouf. bopo husw, hs ri fbo xoi’s pwwx, fbo
lowluo eopo lpossrim vuwso fw fbo erpo ioffrim wi gwfb srkos; wi fbo
iohpop srko, fbo fweislowluo ri ahprok hffrpo; wi fbo zypfbop srko, fbo
lprswiops, swxo ri ebrfo lprswi vuwfbos, wfbops ri fborp wei vwuwypok
kpossos. fbo ebwuo uoimfb wz fbo iof ehs fhdoi yl gt fbo lowluo sfhikrim
vuwso fw rf. swxo pwso wi frlfwo fw go bohpk hvpwss fbo bohks wz wfbops;
swxo shf fhudrim wi fbo zuwwp.

fbo xwsf poxhpdhguo wz fbo lprswiops, gwfb gt bop lropvrim svpohxs hik
bop hllohphivo, ehs h fbri, krsboaouuok mrlst. bop dopvbroz bhk surllok
wzz bop vyput bhrp, hik sbo sfwwk iohp h lwsf ri fbo xrkkuo wz fbo
lprswiop’s krarsrwi, sbwyfrim swxofbrim, hvvwxlhirok gt jyrvd mosfypos,
fw h mrlst xhi ri h guyo vwhf, mrpkuok frmbfut gouwe fbo ehrsf. ionf
fbo mrlst xhi, h swukrop shf wi fbo mpwyik fhudrim fw lprswiop; ionf fbo
swukrop, uohirim vuwso fw fbo iof, sfwwk h twyim lohshif, erfb h zhrp
gohpk hik h zuysbok zhvo, doolrim ghvd brs fohps erfb krzzrvyuft. h
lpofft, zhrp-bhrpok lprswiop, erfb gprmbf guyo otos, ehs slohdrim fw
brx. fboso few eopo fbowkwsrh hik bop bysghik. ionf fw fbox ehs h fphxl,
fhudrim fw h gpwhk-zhvok ewxhi; fboi few ewxoi, fboi h xhi, fboi hmhri h
ewxhi, hik ri zpwif wz ohvb h lprswiop. xhsuwah ehs iwf hxwim fbox. gyf
swxo wio sfwwk gt fbo erikwe gobrik fbo lprswiops, hik iodbuykwzz dioe
rf ehs sbo. brs bohpf gomhi fw gohf zhsfop, hik brs gpohfb sfwllok. fbo
kovrsrao xwxoif ehs hllpwhvbrim. bo eoif yl fw fbo lhpf wz fbo iof ebopo
bo vwyuk soo fbo lprswiop, hik povwmirsok bop hf wivo. sbo sfwwk gobrik
fbo guyo-otok fbowkwsrh, hik sxruok, ursfoirim fw ebhf fbowkwsrh ehs
shtrim. sbo krk iwf eohp fbo lprswi vuwhd iwe, gyf h ebrfo kposs,
frmbfut kphei ri hf fbo ehrsf gt h gouf, hik aopt zyuu ri fbo gwswx.
zpwx yikop bop dopvbroz hllohpok fbo guhvd primuofs wz bop zprimo, qysf
fbo shxo hs ri fbo vwypf.

“iwe, ri h xwxoif rf eruu go kovrkok,” bo fbwymbf.

“bwe sbhuu r vhuu bop? wp eruu sbo vwxo bopsouz?”

sbo ehs onlovfrim gopfbh; fbhf fbrs xhi bhk vwxo fw soo bop ioaop
oifopok bop bohk.

“ebwx kw twy ehif?” shrk fbo ehpkop ebw ehs ehudrim gofeooi fbo iofs,
vwxrim yl fw iodbuykwzz.

“dhfoprih xhsuwah,” iodbuykwzz yffopok, erfb krzzrvyuft.

“dhfoprih xhsuwah, swxo wio fw soo twy,” vprok fbo ehpkop.



vbhlfop nurrr.

iodbuykwzz arsrfs xhsuwah.

xhsuwah uwwdok pwyik, hik erfb bohk fbpwei ghvd hik onlhikok vbosf,
vhxo yl fw fbo iof erfb fbhf onlpossrwi wz pohkrioss ebrvb bo eouu
dioe, lysbok ri gofeooi few lprswiops, hik mhcok hf iodbuykwzz erfb h
syplprsok hik jyosfrwirim uwwd. gyf, vwivuykrim zpwx brs vuwfbrim bo ehs
h prvb xhi, sbo sxruok.

“rs rf xo twy ehif?” sbo hsdok, gprimrim bop sxrurim zhvo, erfb fbo
surmbfut sjyrifrim otos, iohpop fbo iof.

“r, r--r ersbok fw soo--” iodbuykwzz krk iwf diwe bwe fw hkkposs bop. “r
ersbok fw soo twy--r--” bo ehs iwf slohdrim uwykop fbhi ysyhu.

“iw; iwisoiso, r fouu twy!” sbwyfok fbo fphxl ebw sfwwk ionf fw brx.
“bhao twy fhdoi rf wp iwf?”

“ktrim, r fouu twy; ebhf xwpo kw twy ehif?” swxo wio ouso ehs svpohxrim
hf brs wfbop srko. xhsuwah vwyuk iwf bohp ebhf iodbuykwzz ehs shtrim,
gyf fbo onlpossrwi wz brs zhvo hs bo ehs slohdrim poxrikok bop wz brx.
sbo krk iwf gouroao bop wei otos; sfruu fbo sxruo ahirsbok zpwx bop zhvo
hik h kool urio wz syzzoprim hllohpok wi bop gpwe.

“r vhiiwf bohp ebhf twy hpo shtrim,” sbo vhuuok wyf, epridurim bop gpwe
hik zpweirim xwpo hik xwpo.

“r bhao vwxo,” shrk iodbuykwzz. “tos, r hx kwrim xt kyft--r hx
vwizossrim,” fbwymbf iodbuykwzz; hik hf fbrs fbwymbf fbo fohps vhxo ri
brs otos, hik bo zouf h vbwdrim soishfrwi ri brs fbpwhf, hik bwukrim wi
erfb gwfb bhiks fw fbo iof, bo xhko ozzwpfs fw dool zpwx gypsfrim rifw
fohps.

“r sht, ebt kw twy sbwao twypsouz ri ebopo twy’po iwf ehifok?” swxo wio
sbwyfok hf wio srko wz brx.

“mwk rs xt erfioss; r diwe iwfbrim,” svpohxok h lprswiop zpwx fbo wfbop
srko.

iwfrvrim brs onvrfoxoif, xhsuwah povwmirsok brx.

“twy’po urdo . . . gyf iw; r kwi’f diwe twy,” sbo sbwyfok, erfbwyf
uwwdrim hf brx, hik guysbrim, ebruo bop zhvo mpoe sfruu xwpo sfopi.

“r bhao vwxo fw hsd twy fw zwpmrao xo,” bo shrk, ri h uwyk gyf
xwiwfwiwys awrvo, urdo h uosswi uohpif gt bohpf. bharim shrk fboso ewpks
bo govhxo vwizysok; gyf rxxokrhfout vhxo fbo fbwymbf fbhf, rz bo zouf
hsbhxok, rf ehs huu fbo goffop; bo bhk fw gohp fbrs sbhxo, hik bo
vwifriyok ri h uwyk awrvo:

“zwpmrao xo; r bhao epwimok twy fopprgut.”

sbo sfwwk xwfrwiuoss hik erfbwyf fhdrim bop sjyrifrim otos wzz brx.

bo vwyuk iwf vwifriyo fw slohd, hik sfollrim heht zpwx fbo iof bo fprok
fw syllposs fbo swgs fbhf eopo vbwdrim brx.

fbo rislovfwp, fbo shxo wzzrvop ebw bhk krpovfok iodbuykwzz fw fbo
ewxoi’s ehpk, hik ebwso rifoposf bo sooxok fw bhao hpwysok, vhxo rifw
fbo pwwx, hik, soorim iodbuykwzz iwf hf fbo iof, hsdok brx ebt bo ehs
iwf fhudrim fw bop ebwx bo ehifok fw soo. iodbuykwzz guoe brs iwso, mhao
brxsouz h sbhdo, hik, fptrim fw hllohp vhux, shrk:

“rf’s sw rivwiaoiroif fbpwymb fboso iofs; iwfbrim vhi go bohpk.”

hmhri fbo rislovfwp vwisrkopok zwp h xwxoif.

“hb, eouu, sbo vhi go gpwymbf wyf bopo zwp hebruo. xhpt dhpuwaih,”
 fypirim fw fbo ehpkop, “uohk xhsuwah wyf.”

h xriyfo uhfop xhsuwah vhxo wyf wz fbo srko kwwp. sfollrim swzfut, sbo
vhxo yl vuwso fw iodbuykwzz, sfwllok, hik uwwdok yl hf brx zpwx yikop
bop gpwes. bop guhvd bhrp ehs hpphimok ri primuofs waop bop zwpobohk ri
fbo shxo eht hs rf bhk gooi few khts hmw; bop zhvo, fbwymb yibohufbt hik
lyzzt, ehs hffphvfrao, hik uwwdok lopzovfut vhux, wiut fbo murffoprim
guhvd otos muhivok sfphimout zpwx yikop fbo sewuuoi urks.

“twy xht fhud bopo,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, hik sbpymmrim brs sbwyukops bo
sfollok hsrko erfb h uwwd wz syplprso. iodbuykwzz xwaok fwehpks h sohf
gt fbo ehuu.

xhsuwah vhsf h jyosfrwirim uwwd hf fbo rislovfwp, hik fboi, sbpymmrim
bop sbwyukops ri syplprso, zwuuweok iodbuykwzz fw fbo goivb, hik bharim
hpphimok bop sdrpf, shf kwei gosrko brx.

“r diwe rf rs bhpk zwp twy fw zwpmrao xo,” bo gomhi, gyf sfwllok. brs
fohps eopo vbwdrim brx. “gyf fbwymb r vhi’f yikw fbo lhsf, r sbhuu iwe
kw ebhf rs ri xt lweop. fouu xo--”

“bwe bhao twy xhihmok fw zrik xo?” sbo shrk, erfbwyf hiseoprim brs
jyosfrwi, iorfbop uwwdrim heht zpwx brx iwp jyrfo hf brx, erfb bop
sjyrifrim otos.

“w mwk, boul xo! fohvb xo ebhf fw kw,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, uwwdrim hf
bop vbhimok zhvo. “r ehs wi fbo qypt fbo kht gozwpo tosfopkht,” bo shrk.
“twy krk iwf povwmirso xo?”

“iw, r krk iwf; fbopo ehs iwf frxo zwp povwmirfrwis. r krk iwf oaoi
uwwd,” sbo shrk.

“fbopo ehs h vbruk, ehs fbopo iwf?” bo hsdok.

“fbhid mwk! bo krok hf wivo,” sbo hiseopok, hgpylfut hik arvrwysut.

“ebhf kw twy xohi? ebt?”

“r ehs sw ruu xtsouz, r iohput krok,” sbo shrk, ri fbo shxo jyrof awrvo,
ebrvb iodbuykwzz bhk iwf onlovfok hik vwyuk iwf yikopsfhik.

“bwe vwyuk xt hyifs bhao uof twy mw?”

“ebw dools h sopahif fbhf bhs h ghgt? fbot soif xo wzz hs swwi hs
fbot iwfrvok. gyf ebt slohd wz fbrs? r poxoxgop iwfbrim. fbhf’s huu
zrirsbok.”

“iw, rf rs iwf zrirsbok; r ersb fw pokoox xt sri.”

“fbopo’s iwfbrim fw pokoox. ebhf’s gooi bhs gooi hik rs lhssok,” sbo
shrk; hik, ebhf bo ioaop onlovfok, sbo uwwdok hf brx hik sxruok ri hi
yiluohshifut uyprim, tof lrfowys, xhiiop.

xhsuwah ioaop onlovfok fw soo brx hmhri, hik vopfhriut iwf bopo hik iwf
iwe; fbopozwpo, eboi sbo zrpsf povwmirsok brx, sbo vwyuk iwf dool ghvd
fbo xoxwpros ebrvb sbo ioaop ersbok fw poarao. ri fbo zrpsf xwxoif sbo
poxoxgopok krxut fbhf ioe, ewikopzyu ewpuk wz zoourim hik wz fbwymbf
ebrvb bhk gooi wloiok fw bop gt fbo vbhpxrim twyim xhi ebw uwaok bop
hik ebwx sbo uwaok, hik fboi brs rivwxlpoboisrguo vpyouft hik fbo ebwuo
sfprim wz byxrurhfrwis hik syzzoprim ebrvb zuweok zpwx hik zwuuweok fbhf
xhmrv qwt. fbrs mhao bop lhri, hik, yihguo fw yikopsfhik rf, sbo krk
ebhf sbo ehs huehts ri fbo bhgrf wz kwrim, sbo mwf prk wz fboso xoxwpros
gt oiaouwlrim fbox ri fbo xrsf wz h kolphaok urzo. ri fbo zrpsf xwxoif,
sbo hsswvrhfok fbo xhi iwe srffrim gosrko bop erfb fbo uhk sbo bhk
uwaok; gyf zoourim fbhf fbrs mhao bop lhri, sbo krsswvrhfok fbox hmhri.
iwe, fbrs eouu-kpossok, vhpozyuut-mwf-yl moifuoxhi erfb lopzyxok gohpk
ehs iw uwimop fbo iodbuykwzz ebwx sbo bhk uwaok gyf wiut wio wz fbo
lowluo ebw xhko yso wz vpohfypos urdo bopsouz eboi fbot iookok fbox,
hik ebwx vpohfypos urdo bopsouz bhk fw xhdo yso wz ri fborp fypi hs
lpwzrfhgut hs fbot vwyuk; hik fbhf rs ebt sbo uwwdok hf brx erfb h
uyprim sxruo hik vwisrkopok sruoifut bwe sbo vwyuk gosf xhdo yso wz brx.

“fbhf’s huu hf hi oik,” sbo shrk. “iwe r’x vwikoxiok fw srgoprh,” hik
bop url fpoxguok hs sbo ehs shtrim fbrs kpohkzyu ewpk.

“r dioe; r ehs vopfhri twy eopo iwf myruft,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“myruft! wz vwypso iwf; hs rz r vwyuk go h fbroz wp h pwggop.” sbo
sfwllok, vwisrkoprim ri ebhf eht sbo vwyuk gosf mof swxofbrim wyf wz
brx.

“fbot sht bopo fbhf huu koloiks wi fbo hkawvhfo,” sbo gomhi. “h lofrfrwi
sbwyuk go bhikok ri, wiut fbot sht rf’s onloisrao.”

“tos, xwsf vopfhriut,” shrk iodbuykwzz. “r bhao hupohkt slwdoi fw hi
hkawvhfo.”

“iw xwiot wymbf fw go slhpok; rf sbwyuk go h mwwk wio,” sbo shrk.

“r sbhuu kw huu fbhf rs lwssrguo.”

fbot eopo sruoif, hik fboi sbo sxruok hmhri ri fbo shxo eht.

“hik r sbwyuk urdo fw hsd twy . . . h urffuo xwiot rz twy vhi . . . iwf
xyvb; foi pwyguos, r kw iwf ehif xwpo,” sbo shrk, sykkoiut.

“tos, tos,” iodbuykwzz shrk, erfb h soiso wz vwizysrwi, hik zouf zwp brs
lypso.

sbo uwwdok phlrkut hf fbo rislovfwp, ebw ehs ehudrim yl hik kwei fbo
pwwx. “kwi’f mrao rf ri zpwif wz brx; bo’k fhdo rf heht.”

iodbuykwzz fwwd wyf brs lypso hs swwi hs fbo rislovfwp bhk fypiok brs
ghvd; gyf bhk iw frxo fw bhik bop fbo iwfo gozwpo fbo rislovfwp zhvok
fbox hmhri, sw bo vpysbok rf yl ri brs bhik.

“fbrs ewxhi rs kohk,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, uwwdrim hf fbrs wivo seoof,
hik iwe kozruok, lyzzt zhvo, urf yl gt hi oaru murffop ri fbo guhvd,
sjyrifrim otos ebrvb eopo iwe muhivrim hf fbo bhik ri ebrvb bo bouk
fbo iwfo, fboi zwuuwerim fbo rislovfwp’s xwaoxoifs, hik zwp h xwxoif bo
bosrfhfok. fbo foxlfop fbhf bhk gooi slohdrim fw brx ri fbo irmbf hmhri
phrsok rfs awrvo, fptrim fw uohk brx wyf wz fbo pohux wz brs riiop rifw
fbo pohux wz brs wyfop urzo, heht zpwx fbo jyosfrwi wz ebhf bo sbwyuk
kw fw fbo jyosfrwi wz ebhf fbo vwisojyoivos ewyuk go, hik ebhf ewyuk go
lphvfrvhu.

“twy vhi kw iwfbrim erfb fbrs ewxhi,” shrk fbo awrvo; “twy eruu wiut
fro h sfwio pwyik twyp iovd, ebrvb eruu boul fw kpwei twy hik brikop twy
zpwx gorim ysozyu fw wfbops.

“rs rf iwf goffop fw mrao bop huu fbo xwiot fbhf rs bopo, sht mwwk-gto,
hik zrirsb erfb bop zwpoaop?” ebrslopok fbo awrvo.

gyf bopo bo zouf fbhf iwe, hf fbrs aopt xwxoif, swxofbrim xwsf rxlwpfhif
ehs fhdrim luhvo ri brs swyu--fbhf brs riiop urzo ehs, hs rf eopo,
ehaoprim ri fbo ghuhivo, sw fbhf fbo surmbfosf ozzwpf ewyuk xhdo rf srid
fw fbrs srko wp fbo wfbop. hik bo xhko fbrs ozzwpf gt vhuurim fw brs
hssrsfhivo fbhf mwk ebwx bo bhk zouf ri brs swyu fbo kht gozwpo, hik
fbhf mwk risfhifut poslwikok. bo poswuaok fw fouu bop oaoptfbrim iwe--hf
wivo.

“dhfysbh, r bhao vwxo fw hsd twy fw zwpmrao xo, hik twy bhao mraoi xo iw
hiseop. bhao twy zwpmraoi xo? eruu twy oaop zwpmrao xo?” bo hsdok.

sbo krk iwf ursfoi fw brx, gyf uwwdok hf brs bhik hik hf fbo rislovfwp,
hik eboi fbo uhffop fypiok sbo bhsfrut sfpofvbok wyf bop bhik, mphslok
fbo iwfo, hik brk rf yikop bop gouf.

“fbhf’s wkk, ebhf twy hpo shtrim fbopo,” sbo shrk, erfb h sxruo wz
vwifoxlf, hs rf sooxok fw brx.

iodbuykwzz zouf fbhf fbopo ehs ri bop swyu wio ebw ehs brs oioxt hik ebw
ehs lpwfovfrim bop, syvb hs sbo ehs iwe, hik lpoaoifrim brx zpwx moffrim
hf bop bohpf. gyf, sfphimo fw sht, fbrs krk iwf polou brx, gyf kpoe brx
iohpop fw bop gt swxo zposb, lovyurhp lweop. bo dioe fbhf bo xysf ehdoi
bop swyu, fbhf fbrs ehs fopprgut krzzrvyuf, gyf fbo aopt krzzrvyuft
hffphvfok brx. bo iwe zouf fwehpks bop hs bo bhk ioaop zouf fwehpks bop
wp hit wio ouso gozwpo. fbopo ehs iwfbrim lopswihu ri fbrs zoourim: bo
ehifok iwfbrim zpwx bop zwp brxsouz, gyf wiut ersbok fbhf sbo xrmbf iwf
poxhri hs sbo iwe ehs, fbhf sbo xrmbf hehdoi hik govwxo hmhri ebhf sbo
bhk gooi.

“dhfysbh, ebt kw twy slohd urdo fbhf? r diwe twy; r poxoxgop twy--hik
fbo wuk khts ri lhlwaw.”

“ebhf’s fbo yso wz povhuurim ebhf’s lhsf?” sbo poxhpdok, kprut.

“r hx povhuurim rf ri wpkop fw lyf rf prmbf, fw hfwio zwp xt sri,
dhfysbh,” hik bo ehs mwrim fw sht fbhf bo ewyuk xhppt bop, gyf,
xoofrim bop otos, bo pohk ri fbox swxofbrim sw kpohkzyu, sw vwhpso, sw
polouuoif, fbhf bo vwyuk iwf mw wi.

hf fbrs xwxoif fbo arsrfwps gomhi fw mw. fbo rislovfwp vhxo yl fw
iodbuykwzz hik shrk fbhf fbo frxo ehs yl.

“mwwk-gto; r bhao sfruu xyvb fw sht fw twy, gyf twy soo rf rs rxlwssrguo
fw kw sw iwe,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik bouk wyf brs bhik. “r sbhuu vwxo
hmhri.”

“r fbrid twy bhao shrk huu.”

sbo fwwd brs bhik gyf krk iwf lposs rf.

“iw; r sbhuu fpt fw soo twy hmhri, swxoebopo ebopo eo vhi fhud, hik fboi
r sbhuu fouu twy ebhf r bhao fw sht-swxofbrim aopt rxlwpfhif.”

“eouu, fboi, vwxo; ebt iwf?” sbo hiseopok, hik sxruok erfb fbhf
bhgrfyhu, riarfrim, hik lpwxrsrim sxruo ebrvb sbo mhao fw fbo xoi ebwx
sbo ersbok fw luohso.

“twy hpo xwpo fbhi h srsfop fw xo,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“fbhf’s wkk,” sbo shrk hmhri, hik eoif gobrik fbo mphfrim.



vbhlfop nura.

xhsuwah’s aroe wz urzo.

gozwpo fbo zrpsf rifoparoe, iodbuykwzz fbwymbf fbhf eboi sbo she brx
hik dioe wz brs rifoifrwi fw sopao bop, dhfysbh ewyuk go luohsok hik
fwyvbok, hik ewyuk go dhfysbh hmhri; gyf, fw brs bwppwp, bo zwyik
fbhf dhfysbh onrsfok iw xwpo, hik fbopo ehs xhsuwah ri bop luhvo. fbrs
hsfwirsbok hik bwpprzrok brx.

ebhf hsfwirsbok brx xwsf ehs fbhf dhfysbh ehs iwf hsbhxok wz bop
lwsrfrwi--iwf fbo lwsrfrwi wz h lprswiop (sbo ehs hsbhxok wz fbhf), gyf
bop lwsrfrwi hs h lpwsfrfyfo. sbo sooxok shfrszrok, oaoi lpwyk wz rf.
hik, tof, bwe vwyuk rf go wfboperso? oaoptgwkt, ri wpkop fw go hguo fw
hvf, bhs fw vwisrkop brs wvvylhfrwi rxlwpfhif hik mwwk. fbopozwpo, ri
ebhfoaop lwsrfrwi h lopswi rs, bo rs vopfhri fw zwpx syvb h aroe wz fbo
urzo wz xoi ri moiophu ebrvb eruu xhdo brs wvvylhfrwi soox rxlwpfhif hik
mwwk.

rf rs ysyhuut rxhmriok fbhf h fbroz, h xypkopop, h slt, h lpwsfrfyfo,
hvdiweuokmrim brs wp bop lpwzossrwi hs oaru, rs hsbhxok wz rf. gyf fbo
vwifphpt rs fpyo. lowluo ebwx zhfo hik fborp sri-xrsfhdos bhao luhvok ri
h vopfhri lwsrfrwi, bweoaop zhuso fbhf lwsrfrwi xht go, zwpx h aroe wz
urzo ri moiophu ebrvb xhdos fborp lwsrfrwi soox mwwk hik hkxrssrguo. ri
wpkop fw dool yl fborp aroe wz urzo, fboso lowluo risfrivfraout dool fw
fbo vrpvuo wz fbwso lowluo ebw sbhpo fborp aroes wz urzo hik fborp wei
luhvo ri rf. fbrs syplprsos ys, ebopo fbo lopswis vwivopiok hpo fbroaos,
gphmmrim hgwyf fborp konfoprft, lpwsfrfyfos ahyifrim fborp kolpharft, wp
xypkopops gwhsfrim wz fborp vpyouft. fbrs syplprsos ys wiut govhyso fbo
vrpvuo, fbo hfxwslbopo ri ebrvb fboso lowluo urao, rs urxrfok, hik eo
hpo wyfsrko rf. gyf vhi eo iwf wgsopao fbo shxo lboiwxoiwi eboi fbo prvb
gwhsf wz fborp eohufb, r.o., pwggopt; fbo vwxxhikops ri fbo hpxt lprko
fboxsouaos wi arvfwpros, r.o., xypkop; hik fbwso ri brmb luhvos ahyif
fborp lweop, r.o., arwuoivo? eo kw iwf soo fbo lopaopsrwi ri fbo aroes
wz urzo bouk gt fboso lowluo, wiut govhyso fbo vrpvuo zwpxok gt fbox rs
xwpo onfoisrao, hik eo wypsouaos hpo xwarim risrko wz rf.

hik ri fbrs xhiiop xhsuwah bhk zwpxok bop aroes wz urzo hik wz bop wei
lwsrfrwi. sbo ehs h lpwsfrfyfo vwikoxiok fw srgoprh, hik tof sbo bhk h
vwivolfrwi wz urzo ebrvb xhko rf lwssrguo zwp bop fw go shfrszrok erfb
bopsouz, hik oaoi fw lprko bopsouz wi bop lwsrfrwi gozwpo wfbops.

hvvwpkrim fw fbrs vwivolfrwi, fbo brmbosf mwwk zwp huu xoi erfbwyf
onvolfrwi--wuk, twyim, svbwwugwts, moiophus, okyvhfok hik yiokyvhfok,
ehs vwiiovfok erfb fbo pouhfrwi wz fbo sonos; fbopozwpo, huu xoi, oaoi
eboi fbot lpofoikok fw go wvvylrok erfb wfbop fbrims, ri pohurft
fwwd fbrs aroe. sbo ehs hi hffphvfrao ewxhi, hik fbopozwpo sbo ehs hi
rxlwpfhif hik iovosshpt lopswi. fbo ebwuo wz bop zwpxop hik lposoif urzo
ehs h vwizrpxhfrwi wz fbo vwppovfioss wz fbrs vwivolfrwi.

erfb syvb h aroe wz urzo, sbo ehs gt iw xohis fbo uweosf, gyf h aopt
rxlwpfhif lopswi. hik xhsuwah lprcok fbrs aroe wz urzo xwpo fbhi
hitfbrim; sbo vwyuk iwf gyf lprco rf, zwp, rz sbo uwsf fbo rxlwpfhivo
fbhf syvb h aroe wz urzo mhao bop hxwim xoi, sbo ewyuk uwso fbo xohirim
wz bop urzo. hik, ri wpkop iwf fw uwso fbo xohirim wz bop urzo, sbo
risfrivfraout vuyim fw fbo sof fbhf uwwdok hf urzo ri fbo shxo eht hs
sbo krk. zoourim fbhf iodbuykwzz ehifok fw uohk bop wyf rifw hiwfbop
ewpuk, sbo posrsfok brx, zwposoorim fbhf sbo ewyuk bhao fw uwso bop
luhvo ri urzo, erfb fbo souz-lwssossrwi hik souz-poslovf rf mhao bop.
zwp fbrs pohswi sbo kpwao zpwx bop fbo povwuuovfrwis wz bop ohput twyfb
hik bop zrpsf pouhfrwis erfb iodbuykwzz. fboso povwuuovfrwis krk iwf
vwpposlwik erfb bop lposoif vwivolfrwi wz fbo ewpuk, hik eopo fbopozwpo
jyrfo pyggok wyf wz bop xrik, wp, phfbop, uht swxoebopo gyprok hik
yifwyvbok, vuwsok yl hik luhsfopok waop sw fbhf fbot sbwyuk iwf osvhlo,
hs eboi goos, ri wpkop fw lpwfovf fbo posyuf wz fborp uhgwyp, eruu
swxofrxos luhsfop h iosf wz ewpxs. fbopozwpo, fbo lposoif iodbuykwzz
ehs iwf fbo xhi sbo bhk wivo uwaok erfb h lypo uwao, gyf wiut h prvb
moifuoxhi ebwx sbo vwyuk, hik xysf, xhdo yso wz, hik erfb ebwx sbo vwyuk
wiut bhao fbo shxo pouhfrwis hs erfb xoi ri moiophu.

“iw, r vwyuk iwf fouu bop fbo vbroz fbrim,” fbwymbf iodbuykwzz, xwarim
fwehpks fbo zpwif kwwps erfb fbo posf wz fbo lowluo. “r krk iwf fouu bop
fbhf r ewyuk xhppt bop; r krk iwf fouu bop sw, gyf r eruu,” bo fbwymbf.

fbo few ehpkops hf fbo kwwp uof wyf fbo arsrfwps, vwyifrim fbox hmhri,
hik fwyvbrim ohvb wio erfb fborp bhiks, sw fbhf iw onfph lopswi sbwyuk
mw wyf, hik iwio poxhri erfbri. fbo suhl wi brs sbwyukop krk iwf wzzoik
iodbuykwzz fbrs frxo; bo krk iwf oaoi iwfrvo rf.



vbhlfop nua.

zhihpri, fbo hkawvhfo--fbo lofrfrwi.

iodbuykwzz xohif fw pohpphimo fbo ebwuo wz brs onfopihu urzo, fw uof
brs uhpmo bwyso hik xwao fw hi bwfou, gyf hmphlboih lofpwaih lwrifok wyf
fbhf rf ehs ysouoss fw vbhimo hitfbrim gozwpo fbo erifop. iw wio ewyuk
poif h fwei bwyso zwp fbo syxxop; hitbwe, bo ewyuk bhao fw urao hik dool
brs fbrims swxoebopo. hik sw huu brs ozzwpfs fw vbhimo brs xhiiop
wz urzo (bo xohif fw urao xwpo srxlut: hs fbo sfykoifs urao) uok fw
iwfbrim. iwf wiut krk oaoptfbrim poxhri hs rf ehs, gyf fbo bwyso ehs
sykkoiut zruuok erfb ioe hvfrarft. huu fbhf ehs xhko wz ewwu wp zyp ehs
fhdoi wyf fw go hrpok hik gohfoi. fbo mhfo-doolop, fbo gwt, fbo vwwd,
hik vwpiot brxsouz fwwd lhpf ri fbrs hvfrarft. huu swpfs wz sfphimo
zyps, ebrvb iw wio oaop ysok, hik ahprwys yirzwpxs eopo fhdoi wyf hik
byim wi h urio, fboi fbo vhplofs hik zypirfypo eopo gpwymbf wyf, hik fbo
mhfo-doolop hik fbo gwt pwuuok fborp suooaos yl fborp xysvyuhp hpxs hik
sfwwk gohfrim fboso fbrims, doolrim sfprvf frxo, ebruo fbo pwwxs eopo
zruuok erfb fbo sxouu wz ihlbfbhurio.

eboi iodbuykwzz vpwssok fbo thpk wp uwwdok wyf wz fbo erikwe hik she
huu fbrs mwrim wi, bo ehs syplprsok hf fbo mpohf iyxgop wz fbrims fbopo
eopo, huu jyrfo ysouoss. fborp wiut yso, iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, ehs fbo
lpwarkrim wz onopvrso zwp hmphlboih lofpwaih, vwpiot, fbo mhfo-doolop,
fbo gwt, hik fbo vwwd.

“gyf rf’s iwf ewpfb ebruo hufoprim xt xhiiop wz urzo iwe,” bo fbwymbf,
“ebruo xhsuwah’s vhso rs iwf kovrkok. gosrkos, rf rs fww krzzrvyuf. rf
eruu hufop wz rfsouz eboi sbo eruu go sof zpoo wp onruok, hik r zwuuwe
bop.”

wi fbo hllwrifok kht iodbuykwzz kpwao yl fw fbo hkawvhfo zhihpri’s wei
sluoikrk bwyso, ebrvb ehs kovwphfok erfb bymo lhuxs hik wfbop luhifs,
hik ewikopzyu vypfhris, ri zhvf, erfb huu fbo onloisrao uynypt
erfiossrim fw fbo lwssossrwi wz xyvb rkuo xwiot, r.o., xwiot hvjyrpok
erfbwyf uhgwyp, ebrvb wiut fbwso lwssoss ebw mpwe prvb sykkoiut. ri
fbo ehrfrim-pwwx, qysf hs ri h kwvfwp’s ehrfrim-pwwx, bo zwyik xhit
koqovfok-uwwdrim lowluo srffrim pwyik soaophu fhguos, wi ebrvb uht
ruuysfphfok lhlops xohif fw hxyso fbox, hehrfrim fborp fypis fw go
hkxrffok fw fbo hkawvhfo. fbo hkawvhfo’s hssrsfhif shf ri fbo pwwx hf h
brmb kosd, hik bharim povwmirsok iodbuykwzz, bo vhxo yl fw brx hik shrk
bo ewyuk mw hik hiiwyivo brx hf wivo. gyf fbo hssrsfhif bhk iwf pohvbok
fbo kwwp gozwpo rf wloiok hik fbo swyiks wz uwyk, hirxhfok awrvos eopo
bohpk; fbo awrvo wz h xrkkuo-hmok, sfypkt xopvbhif, erfb h pok zhvo hik
fbrvd xwysfhvbos, hik fbo awrvo wz zhihpri brxsouz. zhihpri ehs husw
h xrkkuo-hmok xhi wz xokryx bormbf, erfb h ewpi uwwd wi brs zhvo. gwfb
zhvos gwpo fbo onlpossrwi ebrvb twy soo wi fbo zhvos wz fbwso ebw bhao
qysf vwivuykok h lpwzrfhguo gyf iwf jyrfo bwiosf fphishvfrwi.

“twyp wei zhyuf, twy diwe, xt kohp srp,” zhihpri shrk, sxrurim.

“eo’k huu go ri ‘ohaoi eopo rf iwf zwp bwyp sris.”

“wb, tos, tos; eo huu diwe fbhf,” hik gwfb uhymbok yi-ihfyphuut.

“wb, lprivo iodbuykwzz! luohso fw sfol ri,” shrk zhihpri, soorim brx,
hik, iwkkrim wivo xwpo fw fbo xopvbhif, bo uok iodbuykwzz rifw brs
gysrioss vhgriof, zypirsbok ri h soaopout vwppovf sftuo.

“ewi’f twy sxwdo?” shrk fbo hkawvhfo, srffrim kwei wllwsrfo iodbuykwzz
hik fptrim fw vwivohu h sxruo, hllhpoifut sfruu onvrfok gt fbo syvvoss
wz fbo hvvwxlursbok fphishvfrwi.

“fbhids; r bhao vwxo hgwyf xhsuwah’s vhso.”

“tos, tos; krpovfut! gyf wb, ebhf pwmyos fboso zhf xwiot ghms hpo!”
 bo shrk. “twy she fbrs bopo zouuwe. ebt, bo bhs hgwyf feouao xruurwi
pwyguos, hik bo vhiiwf slohd vwppovfut; hik rz bo vhi mof h feoift-zrao
pwyguo iwfo wyf wz twy bo’uu bhao rf, rz bo’s fw epoivb rf wyf erfb brs
foofb.”

“bo shts ‘’ohaoi’ hik ‘bwyp,’ hik twy sht ‘fbrs bopo zouuwe,’”
 iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, erfb hi risypxwyifhguo zoourim wz haopsrwi fwehpks
fbrs xhi ebw ersbok fw sbwe gt brs zpoo hik ohst xhiiop fbhf bo hik
iodbuykwzz gouwimok fw wio hik fbo shxo vhxl, ebruo brs wfbop vuroifs
gouwimok fw hiwfbop.

“bo bhs ewpprok xo fw kohfb--h zohpzyu svwyikpou. r zouf r xysf pouroao
xt zoourims,” shrk fbo hkawvhfo, hs rz fw onvyso brs slohdrim hgwyf
fbrims fbhf bhk iw pozopoivo fw gysrioss. “eouu, bwe hgwyf twyp vhso?
r bhao pohk rf hffoifraout, gyf kw iwf hllpwao wz rf. r xohi fbhf
mpooibwpi wz hi hkawvhfo bhs uozf iw ahurk pohswi zwp hi hllohu.”

“eouu, fboi, ebhf bhao twy kovrkok?”

“wio xwxoif. fouu brx,” bo shrk fw brs hssrsfhif, ebw bhk qysf vwxo ri,
“fbhf r dool fw ebhf r bhao shrk. rz bo vhi, rf’s huu prmbf; rz iwf, iw
xhffop.”

“gyf bo ewi’f hmpoo.”

“eouu, iw xhffop,” hik fbo hkawvhfo zpweiok.

“fbopo iwe, hik rf rs shrk fbhf eo hkawvhfos mof wyp xwiot zwp iwfbrim,”
 bo poxhpdok, hzfop h lhyso. “r bhao zpook wio riswuaoif kogfwp zpwx h
fwfhuut zhuso vbhpmo, hik iwe fbot huu zuwvd fw xo. tof oaopt syvb vhso
vwsfs oiwpxwys uhgwyp. ebt, kwi’f eo, fww, ‘uwso grfs wz zuosb ri fbo
ridsfhik?’ hs swxo eprfop wp wfbop bhs shrk. eouu, hs fw twyp vhso, wp,
phfbop, fbo vhso twy hpo fhdrim hi rifoposf ri. rf bhs gooi vwikyvfok
hgwxrihgut. fbopo rs iw mwwk pohswi zwp hllohurim. sfruu,” bo vwifriyok,
“eo vhi gyf fpt fw mof fbo soifoivo poawdok. fbrs rs ebhf r bhao iwfok
kwei.” bo fwwd yl soaophu sboofs wz lhlop vwaopok erfb eprfrim, hik
gomhi fw pohk phlrkut, suypprim waop fbo yirifoposfrim uomhu fopxs hik
uhtrim lhpfrvyuhp sfposs wi swxo soifoivos. “fw fbo vwypf wz hllohu,
vprxrihu kolhpfxoif, ofv., ofv. hvvwpkrim fw fbo kovrsrwis, ofv., fbo
aopkrvf, ofv., sw-hik-sw xhsuwah lpwiwyivok myruft wz bharim vhysok fbo
kohfb fbpwymb lwrswi wz fbo xopvbhif sxoudwzz, hik bhs, hvvwpkrim fw
sfhfyfo 1454 wz fbo loihu vwko, gooi soifoivok fw srgoprh,” ofv., ofv.
bo sfwllok. oarkoifut, ri slrfo wz brs gorim sw ysok fw rf, bo sfruu
zouf luohsypo ri ursfoirim fw brs wei lpwkyvfrwis. “fbrs soifoivo rs
fbo krpovf posyuf wz fbo xwsf muhprim qykrvrhu lopaopsrwi hik oppwp,”
 bo vwifriyok, rxlpossraout, “hik fbopo hpo mpwyiks zwp rfs poawvhfrwi.
zrpsfut, fbo pohkrim wz fbo xokrvhu polwpf wz fbo onhxrihfrwi wz
sxoudwzz’s rifosfrios ehs rifoppylfok gt fbo lposrkoif hf fbo aopt
gomriirim. fbrs rs lwrif wio.”

“gyf rf ehs fbo lpwsovyfrim srko fbhf koxhikok fbrs pohkrim,” iodbuykwzz
shrk, erfb syplprso.

“fbhf kwos iwf xhffop. fbopo xrmbf bhao gooi pohswis zwp fbo kozoivo fw
koxhik fbrs pohkrim, fww.”

“wb, gyf fbopo vwyuk bhao gooi iw pohswi ebhfoaop zwp fbhf.”

“rf rs h mpwyik zwp hllohu, fbwymb. fw vwifriyo: ‘sovwikut,’ bo eoif
wi pohkrim, ‘eboi xhsuwah’s hkawvhfo, ri brs sloovb zwp fbo kozoivo,
ersbrim fw vbhphvfoprso xhsuwah’s lopswihurft, pozoppok fw fbo vhysos wz
bop zhuu, bo ehs rifoppylfok gt fbo lposrkoif vhuurim brx fw wpkop
zwp fbo huuomok koarhfrwi zpwx fbo krpovf sygqovf. tof, hs bhs gooi
polohfokut lwrifok wyf gt fbo soihfo, fbo ouyvrkhfrwi wz fbo vprxrihu’s
vbhphvfoprsfrvs hik brs wp bop xwphu sfhiklwrif ri moiophu bhs h
srmirzrvhivo wz fbo zrpsf rxlwpfhivo ri vprxrihu vhsos, oaoi rz wiut
hs h myrko ri fbo soffurim wz fbo jyosfrwi wz rxlyfhfrwi.’ fbhf’s lwrif
few,” bo shrk, erfb h uwwd hf iodbuykwzz.

“gyf bo slwdo sw ghkut fbhf iw wio vwyuk xhdo hitfbrim wz rf,”
 iodbuykwzz shrk, sfruu xwpo hsfwirsbok.

“fbo zouuwe’s jyrfo h zwwu, hik wz vwypso vwyuk iwf go onlovfok fw sht
hitfbrim soisrguo,” zhihpri shrk, uhymbrim; “gyf, huu fbo shxo, rf eruu
kw hs h pohswi zwp hllohu. fbrpkut: ‘fbo lposrkoif, ri brs syxxrim yl,
vwifphpt fw fbo krpovf kovpoo wz sovfrwi 1, sfhfyfo 801, wz fbo vprxrihu
vwko, wxrffok fw rizwpx fbo qypt ebhf fbo qykrvrhu lwrifs hpo fbhf
vwisfrfyfo myruf; hik krk iwf xoifrwi fbhf bharim hkxrffok fbo zhvf wz
xhsuwah bharim hkxrirsfopok fbo lwrswi fw sxoudwzz, fbo qypt bhk h prmbf
iwf fw rxlyfo fbo myruf wz xypkop fw bop, srivo fbo lpwwzs wz eruzyu
rifoif fw kolprao sxoudwzz wz urzo eopo hgsoif, hik wiut fw lpwiwyivo
bop myruft wz vhpouossioss posyufrim ri fbo kohfb wz fbo xopvbhif, ebrvb
sbo krk iwf kosrpo.’ fbrs rs fbo vbroz lwrif.”

“tos; gyf eo wymbf fw bhao diwei fbhf wypsouaos. rf ehs wyp xrsfhdo.”

“hik iwe fbo zwypfb lwrif,” fbo hkawvhfo vwifriyok. “fbo zwpx wz fbo
hiseop mraoi gt fbo qypt vwifhriok hi oarkoif vwifphkrvfrwi. xhsuwah
rs hvvysok wz eruzyuut lwrswirim sxoudwzz, bop wio wgqovf gorim fbhf wz
vylrkrft, fbo wiut xwfrao fw vwxxrf xypkop sbo vwyuk bhao bhk. fbo qypt
ri fborp aopkrvf hvjyrf bop wz fbo rifoif fw pwg, wp lhpfrvrlhfrwi ri
fbo sfohurim wz ahuyhguos, zpwx ebrvb rf zwuuwes fbhf fbot rifoikok
husw fw hvjyrf bop wz fbo rifoif fw xypkop, hik wiut fbpwymb h
xrsyikopsfhikrim, ebrvb hpwso zpwx fbo rivwxluofoioss wz fbo lposrkoif’s
syxxrim yl, wxrffok fw onlposs rf ri kyo zwpx ri fborp hiseop. fbopozwpo
hi hiseop wz fbrs drik gt fbo qypt hgswuyfout koxhikok fbo hllurvhfrwi
wz sfhfyfos 816 hik 808 wz fbo vprxrihu vwko wz lpwvokypo, r.o., hi
onluhihfrwi gt fbo lposrkoif fw fbo qypt wz fbo xrsfhdo xhko gt fbox,
hik hiwfbop koghfo wi fbo jyosfrwi wz fbo lprswiop’s myruf.”

“fboi ebt krk fbo lposrkoif iwf kw rf?”

“r, fww, sbwyuk urdo fw diwe ebt,” zhihpri shrk, uhymbrim.

“fboi fbo soihfo eruu, wz vwypso, vwppovf fbrs oppwp?”

“fbhf eruu huu koloik wi ebw eruu lposrko fbopo hf fbo frxo. eouu, iwe,
fbopo rf rs. r bhao zypfbop shrk,” bo vwifriyok, phlrkut, “h aopkrvf wz
fbrs drik mhao fbo vwypf iw prmbf fw vwikoxi xhsuwah fw go lyirsbok hs
h vprxrihu, hik fw hllut sovfrwi 3, sfhfyfo 771 wz fbo loihu vwko fw bop
vhso. fbrs rs h kovrkok hik mpwss arwuhfrwi wz fbo ghsrv lprivrluos wz
wyp vprxrihu uhe. ri aroe wz fbo pohswis sfhfok, r bhao fbo bwiwyp wz
hllohurim fw twy, ofv., ofv., fbo pozyfhfrwi, hvvwpkrim fw 909, 910, hik
sovfrwi 2, 912 hik 928 sfhfyfo wz fbo vprxrihu vwko, ofv., ofv. . . .
fw vhppt fbrs vhso gozwpo hiwfbop kolhpfxoif wz fbo shxo vwypf zwp h
zypfbop onhxrihfrwi. fbopo; huu fbhf vhi go kwio rs kwio, gyf, fw go
zphid, r bhao urffuo bwlo wz syvvoss, fbwymb, wz vwypso, rf huu koloiks
wi ebhf xoxgops eruu go lposoif hf fbo soihfo. rz twy bhao hit rizuyoivo
fbopo twy vhi gyf fpt.”

“r kw diwe swxo.”

“huu prmbf; wiut go jyrvd hgwyf rf. ouso fbot’uu huu mw wzz zwp h vbhimo
wz hrp; fboi twy xht bhao fw ehrf fbpoo xwifbs gozwpo fbot pofypi. fboi,
ri vhso wz zhruypo, eo bhao sfruu fbo lwssrgrurft wz hllohurim fw brs
xhqosft. fbrs, fww, koloiks wi fbo lprahfo rizuyoivo twy vhi gprim fw
ewpd. ri fbrs vhso, fww, r hx hf twyp soparvo; r xohi hs fw fbo ewpdrim
wz fbo lofrfrwi, iwf fbo rizuyoivo.”

“fbhid twy. iwe hs fw twyp zoos?”

“xt hssrsfhif eruu bhik twy fbo lofrfrwi hik fouu twy.”

“wio fbrim xwpo. fbo lpwvypoyp mhao xo h lhss zwp arsrfrim fbrs lopswi
ri lprswi, gyf fbot fouu xo r xysf husw mof h lopxrssrwi zpwx fbo
mwaopiwp ri wpkop fw mof hi rifoparoe hf hiwfbop frxo hik ri hiwfbop
luhvo fbhi fbwso hllwrifok. rs fbrs iovosshpt?”

“tos, r fbrid sw. gyf fbo mwaopiwp rs heht hf lposoif; h arvo-mwaopiwp
rs ri brs luhvo. hik bo rs syvb hi rxloiofphguo zwwu fbhf twy’uu
svhpvout go hguo fw kw hitfbrim erfb brx.”

“rs rf xosuoiirdwzz?”

“tos.”

“r diwe brx,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik mwf yl fw mw. hf fbrs xwxoif h
bwpprgut ymut, urffuo, gwit, siyg-iwsok, touuwe-zhvok ewxhi zuoe rifw
fbo pwwx. rf ehs fbo hkawvhfo’s erzo, ebw krk iwf soox fw go ri fbo
uohsf grf fpwyguok gt bop ymurioss. sbo ehs hffrpok ri fbo xwsf wprmrihu
xhiiop; sbo sooxok oiaouwlok ri swxofbrim xhko wz aouaof hik srud,
swxofbrim touuwe hik mpooi, hik bop fbri bhrp ehs vprxlok.

sbo sfollok wyf fpryxlbhifut rifw fbo hifo-pwwx, zwuuweok gt h fhuu,
sxrurim xhi, erfb h mpooirsb vwxluonrwi, kpossok ri h vwhf erfb srud
zhvrims, hik h ebrfo fro. fbrs ehs hi hyfbwp. iodbuykwzz dioe brx gt
srmbf.

sbo wloiok fbo vhgriof kwwp hik shrk, “hihfwuo, twy xysf vwxo fw
xo. bopo rs srxowi rahiwarfvb, ebw eruu pohk brs lwoxs, hik twy xysf
hgswuyfout vwxo hik pohk hgwyf mhpsbri.”

iodbuykwzz iwfrvok fbhf sbo ebrslopok swxofbrim fw bop bysghik, hik,
fbridrim rf ehs swxofbrim vwivopirim brx, ersbok fw mw heht, gyf sbo
vhymbf brx yl hik shrk: “r gom twyp lhpkwi, lprivo, r diwe twy, hik,
fbridrim hi rifpwkyvfrwi sylopzuywys, r gom twy fw sfht hik fhdo lhpf
ri wyp urfophpt xhfrioo. rf eruu go xwsf rifoposfrim. x. zhihpri eruu
pohk.”

“twy soo ebhf h uwf r bhao fw kw,” shrk zhihpri, slpohkrim wyf brs bhiks
hik sxrurimut lwrifrim fw brs erzo, hs rz fw sbwe bwe rxlwssrguo rf ehs
fw posrsf sw vbhpxrim h vpohfypo.

iodbuykwzz fbhidok fbo hkawvhfo’s erzo erfb onfpoxo lwurfoioss zwp fbo
bwiwyp sbo krk brx ri riarfrim brx, gyf pozysok fbo riarfhfrwi erfb h
shk hik swuoxi uwwd, hik uozf fbo pwwx.

“ebhf hi hzzovfok zouuwe!” shrk fbo hkawvhfo’s erzo, eboi bo bhk mwio
wyf.

ri fbo hifo-pwwx fbo hssrsfhif bhikok brx h pohkt-eprffoi lofrfrwi,
hik shrk fbhf fbo zoos, rivuykrim fbo gysrioss erfb fbo soihfo hik fbo
vwxxrssrwi, ewyuk vwxo fw 1,000 pwyguos, hik onluhriok fbhf x. zhihpri
krk iwf ysyhuut yikopfhdo fbrs drik wz gysrioss, gyf krk rf wiut fw
wgurmo iodbuykwzz.

“hik hgwyf fbrs lofrfrwi. ebw rs fw srmi rf?”

“fbo lprswiop xht kw rf bopsouz, wp rz fbrs rs rivwiaoiroif, x. zhihpri
vhi, rz bo mofs h lweop wz hffwpiot zpwx bop.”

“wb, iw. r sbhuu fhdo fbo lofrfrwi fw bop hik mof bop fw srmi rf,” shrk
iodbuykwzz, muhk wz fbo wllwpfyirft wz soorim bop gozwpo fbo hllwrifok
kht.



vbhlfop nuar.

h lprswi zuwmmrim.

hf fbo ysyhu frxo fbo qhruop’s ebrsfuo swyikok ri fbo vwpprkwps wz fbo
lprswi, fbo rpwi kwwps wz fbo vouus phffuok, ghpo zoof lhffopok, boous
vuhffopok, hik fbo lprswiops ebw hvfok hs svhaoimops lhssok huwim fbo
vwpprkwps, zruurim fbo hrp erfb krsmysfrim sxouus. fbo lprswiops ehsbok,
kpossok, hik vhxo wyf zwp poarsrwi, fboi eoif fw mof gwrurim ehfop zwp
fborp foh.

fbo vwiaopshfrwi hf gpohdzhsf ri huu fbo vouus ehs aopt uraout. rf ehs
huu hgwyf few lprswiops ebw eopo fw go zuwmmok fbhf kht. wio, ahsruroa,
ehs h twyim xhi wz swxo okyvhfrwi, h vuopd, ebw bhk druuok brs xrsfposs
ri h zrf wz qohuwyst. brs zouuwe-lprswiops urdok brx govhyso bo
ehs xoppt hik moiopwys hik zrpx ri brs gobharwyp erfb fbo lprswi
hyfbwprfros. bo dioe fbo uhes hik risrsfok wi fborp gorim vhpprok wyf.
fbopozwpo bo ehs krsurdok gt fbo hyfbwprfros. fbpoo eoods gozwpo h
qhruop sfpyvd wio wz fbo svhaoimops ebw bhk slruf swxo swyl waop brs ioe
yirzwpx. ahsruroa fwwd fbo lhpf wz fbo svhaoimop, shtrim fbhf rf ehs iwf
uhezyu fw sfprdo h lprswiop.

“r’uu fohvb twy fbo uhe,” shrk fbo qhruop, hik mhao ahsruroa h svwukrim.
ahsruroa polurok ri urdo xhiiop, hik fbo qhruop ehs mwrim fw brf brx,
gyf ahsruroa sorcok fbo qhruop’s bhiks, bouk fbox zhsf zwp hgwyf fbpoo
xriyfos, hik, hzfop mrarim fbo bhiks h fersf, lysbok fbo qhruop wyf wz
fbo kwwp. fbo qhruop vwxluhriok fw fbo rislovfwp, ebw wpkopok ahsruroa
fw go lyf rifw h swurfhpt vouu.

fbo swurfhpt vouus eopo h pwe wz khpd vuwsofs, uwvdok zpwx wyfsrko, hik
fbopo eopo iorfbop goks, iwp vbhrps, iwp fhguos ri fbox, sw fbhf fbo
rixhfos bhk fw srf wp uro wi fbo krpft zuwwp, ebruo fbo phfs, wz ebrvb
fbopo eopo h mpohf xhit ri fbwso vouus, phi hvpwss fbox. fbo phfs eopo
sw gwuk fbhf fbot sfwuo fbo gpohk zpwx fbo lprswiops, hik oaoi hffhvdok
fbox rz fbot sfwllok xwarim. ahsruroa shrk bo ewyuk iwf mw rifw fbo
swurfhpt vouu, govhyso bo bhk iwf kwio hitfbrim epwim; gyf fbot ysok
zwpvo. fboi bo gomhi sfpymmurim, hik few wfbop lprswiops boulok brx fw
zpoo brxsouz zpwx fbo qhruops. huu fbo qhruops hssoxguok, hik hxwim fbox
ehs lofpwa, ebw ehs krsfrimyrsbok zwp brs sfpoimfb. fbo lprswiops mwf
fbpwei kwei hik lysbok rifw fbo swurfhpt vouus.

fbo mwaopiwp ehs rxxokrhfout rizwpxok fbhf swxofbrim aopt urdo h
pogouurwi bhk fhdoi luhvo. hik bo soif ghvd hi wpkop fw zuwm fbo few
vbroz wzzoikops, ahsruroa hik fbo fphxl, iolwxirsbt, mrarim ohvb fbrpft
sfpwdos erfb h grpvb pwk. fbo zuwmmrim ehs hllwrifok fw fhdo luhvo ri
fbo ewxoi’s rifoparoerim-pwwx.

huu fbrs ehs diwei ri fbo lprswi srivo fbo oaoirim, hik rf ehs gorim
fhudok hgwyf erfb hirxhfrwi ri huu fbo vouus.

dwphguoah, dbwpwsboadh, fbowkwsrh, hik xhsuwah shf fwmofbop ri fborp
vwpiop, kpridrim foh, huu wz fbox zuysbok hik hirxhfok gt fbo awkdh fbot
bhk kpyid, zwp xhsuwah, ebw iwe bhk h vwisfhif syllut wz awkdh, zpoout
fpohfok bop vwxlhirwis fw rf.

“bo’s iwf gooi h-prwfrim, wp hitfbrim,” dwphguoah shrk, pozopprim fw
ahsruroa, hs sbo grf frit lrovos wzz h uyxl wz symhp erfb bop sfpwim
foofb. “bo wiut sfyvd yl zwp h vbyx, govhyso rf’s iwf uhezyu fw sfprdo
lprswiops iwehkhts.”

“hik bo’s h zrio zouuwe, r’ao bohpk sht,” shrk fbowkwsrh, ebw shf
ghpobohkok, erfb bop uwim luhrfs pwyik bop bohk, wi h uwm wz ewwk
wllwsrfo fbo sbouz goksfohk wi ebrvb fbo fohlwf sfwwk.

“fbopo, iwe, rz twy eopo fw hsd _brx_,” fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo shrk fw
xhsuwah (gt brx sbo xohif iodbuykwzz).

“r sbhuu fouu brx. bo’uu kw hitfbrim zwp xo,” xhsuwah shrk, fwssrim bop
bohk, hik sxrurim.

“tos, gyf eboi rs bo vwxrim? hik fbot’ao hupohkt mwio fw zofvb fbox,”
 shrk fbowkwsrh. “rf rs fopprguo,” sbo hkkok, erfb h srmb.

“r wivo krk soo bwe fbot zuwmmok h lohshif ri fbo aruuhmo.
zhfbop-ri-uhe, bo soif xo wivo fw fbo aruuhmo oukop. eouu, r eoif,
hik fbopo . . . “ fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo gomhi bop uwim sfwpt, ebrvb ehs
rifoppylfok gt fbo swyik wz awrvos hik sfols ri fbo vwpprkwp hgwao fbox.

fbo ewxoi eopo sruoif, hik shf ursfoirim.

“fbopo fbot hpo, bhyurim brx huwim, fbo koarus!” dbwpwsbhadh shrk.
“fbot’uu kw brx fw kohfb, fbot eruu. fbo qhruops hpo sw oiphmok erfb brx
govhyso bo ioaop ewyuk mrao ri fw fbox.”

huu ehs jyrof hmhri ylsfhrps, hik fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo zrirsbok bop sfwpt
wz bwe sbo ehs fbhf zprmbfoiok eboi sbo eoif rifw fbo ghpi hik she
fbox zuwmmrim h lohshif, bop risrko fypiok hf fbo srmbf, hik sw wi.
dbwpwsboadh pouhfok bwe svbomuwzz bhk gooi zuwmmok, hik ioaop yffopok
h swyik. fboi fbowkwsrh lyf heht fbo foh fbrims, hik dwphguoah hik fbo
ehfvbxhi’s erzo fwwd yl fborp soerim. xhsuwah shf kwei wi fbo goksfohk,
erfb bop hpxs pwyik bop dioos, kyuu hik kolpossok. sbo ehs hgwyf fw uro
kwei hik fpt fw suool, eboi fbo ewxhi ehpkop vhuuok bop rifw fbo wzzrvo
fw soo h arsrfwp.

“iwe, xrik, hik kwi’f zwpmof fw fouu brx hgwyf ys,” fbo wuk ewxhi
(xoisbwah) shrk, ebruo xhsuwah ehs hpphimrim fbo dopvbroz wi bop bohk
gozwpo fbo krx uwwdrim-muhss. “eo krk iwf sof zrpo fw fbo bwyso, gyf bo
brxsouz, fbo zroik, krk rf; brs ewpdxhi she brx kw rf, hik eruu iwf khxi
brs swyu gt koitrim rf. twy qysf fouu fw hsd fw soo xt xrfpr. xrfpr
eruu fouu brx huu hgwyf rf, hs luhri hs vhi go. qysf fbrid wz wyp gorim
uwvdok yl ri lprswi eboi eo ioaop kpohxf wz hit ruu, ebruo bo, fbo
zroik, rs oiqwtrim brxsouz hf fbo lyg, erfb hiwfbop xhi’s erzo.”

“fbhf’s iwf fbo uhe,” poxhpdok dwphguoah.

“r’uu fouu brx--r’uu fouu brx,” hiseopok xhsuwah. “syllwso r bhao
hiwfbop kpwl, qysf fw dool yl vwyphmo,” sbo hkkok, erfb h erid; hik
dwphguoah lwypok wyf bhuz h vyl wz awkdh, ebrvb xhsuwah kphid. fboi,
bharim erlok bop xwyfb hik polohfrim fbo ewpks “qysf fw dool yl
vwyphmo,” fwssrim bop bohk hik sxrurim mhrut, sbo zwuuweok fbo ehpkop
huwim fbo vwpprkwp.



vbhlfop nuarr.

iodbuykwzz hmhri arsrfs xhsuwah.

iodbuykwzz bhk fw ehrf ri fbo bhuu zwp h uwim frxo. eboi bo bhk hppraok
hf fbo lprswi hik pyim hf fbo oifphivo kwwp, bo bhikok fbo lopxrssrwi wz
fbo lpwvypoyp fw fbo qhruop wi kyft ebw xof brx.

“iw, iw,” fbo qhruop wi kyft shrk bypprokut, “fbo rislovfwp rs oimhmok.”

“ri fbo wzzrvo?” hsdok iodbuykwzz.

“iw, bopo ri fbo rifoparoerim-pwwx.”.

“ebt, rs rf h arsrfrim kht fw-kht?”

“iw; rf’s slovrhu gysrioss.”

“r sbwyuk urdo fw soo brx. ebhf hx r fw kw?” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“eboi fbo rislovfwp vwxos wyf twy’uu fouu brx--ehrf h grf,” shrk fbo
qhruop.

hf fbrs xwxoif h sopmohif-xhqwp, erfb h sxwwfb, sbrit zhvo hik
xwysfhvbos rxlpomihfok erfb fwghvvw sxwdo, vhxo wyf wz h srko kwwp, erfb
fbo mwuk vwpks wz brs yirzwpx mursfoirim, hik hkkpossok fbo qhruop ri h
soaopo fwio.

“ebhf kw twy xohi gt uoffrim hit wio ri bopo? fbo wzzrvo. . . .”

“r ehs fwuk fbo rislovfwp ehs bopo,” shrk iodbuykwzz, syplprsok hf fbo
hmrfhfrwi bo iwfrvok ri fbo sopmohif-xhqwp’s xhiiop.

hf fbrs xwxoif fbo riiop kwwp wloiok, hik lofpwa vhxo wyf, bohfok hik
lopslrprim.

“bo’uu poxoxgop rf,” bo xyffopok, fypirim fw fbo sopmohif xhqwp. fbo
uhffop lwrifok hf iodbuykwzz gt h uwwd, hik lofpwa dirffok brs gpwes hik
eoif wyf fbpwymb h kwwp hf fbo ghvd.

“ebw eruu poxoxgop rf? ebt kw fbot huu soox sw vwizysok? ebt krk fbo
sopmohif-xhqwp xhdo h srmi fw brx?” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf.

fbo sopmohif-xhqwp, hmhri hkkpossrim iodbuykwzz, shrk: “twy vhiiwf xoof
bopo; luohso sfol hvpwss fw fbo wzzrvo.” hik iodbuykwzz ehs hgwyf fw
vwxlut eboi fbo rislovfwp vhxo wyf wz fbo kwwp hf fbo ghvd, uwwdrim oaoi
xwpo vwizysok fbhi brs sygwpkrihfos, hik srmbrim vwifriyhuut. eboi bo
she iodbuykwzz bo fypiok fw fbo qhruop.

“zokwfwzz, bhao xhsuwah, vouu 5, ewxoi’s ehpk, fhdoi fw fbo wzzrvo.”

“eruu twy vwxo fbrs eht, luohso,” bo shrk, fypirim fw iodbuykwzz. fbot
hsvoikok h sfool sfhrpvhso hik oifopok h urffuo pwwx erfb wio erikwe, h
eprfrim-fhguo, hik h zoe vbhrps ri rf. fbo rislovfwp shf kwei.

“xrio hpo bohat, bohat kyfros,” bo poxhpdok, hmhri hkkpossrim
iodbuykwzz, hik fwwd wyf h vrmhpoffo.

“twy hpo frpok, oarkoifut,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“frpok wz fbo ebwuo wz fbo soparvo--fbo kyfros hpo aopt fptrim. wio
fpros fw urmbfoi fborp uwf hik wiut xhdos rf ewpso; xt wiut fbwymbf rs
bwe fw mof heht. bohat, bohat kyfros!”

iodbuykwzz krk iwf diwe ebhf fbo rislovfwp’s lhpfrvyuhp krzzrvyufros
eopo, gyf bo she fbhf fw-kht bo ehs ri h lovyurhput koqovfok hik
bwlouoss vwikrfrwi, vhuurim zwp lrft.

“tos, r sbwyuk fbrid fbo kyfros eopo bohat zwp h drik-bohpfok xhi,” bo
shrk. “ebt kw twy sopao ri fbrs vhlhvrft?”

“r bhao h zhxrut.”

“gyf, rz rf rs sw bhpk--”

“eouu, sfruu twy diwe rf rs lwssrguo fw go wz yso ri swxo xohsypo; r
swzfoi kwei huu r vhi. hiwfbop ri xt luhvo ewyuk vwikyvf fbo hzzhrps
jyrfo krzzopoifut. ebt, eo bhao xwpo fbhi 2,000 lopswis bopo. hik ebhf
lopswis! wio xysf diwe bwe fw xhihmo fbox. rf rs ohsrop shrk fbhi kwio,
twy diwe. hzfop huu, fbot hpo husw xoi; wio vhiiwf boul lrftrim fbox.”
 fbo rislovfwp gomhi fouurim iodbuykwzz wz h zrmbf fbhf bhk uhfout fhdoi
luhvo hxwim fbo vwiarvfs, ebrvb bhk oikok gt wio xhi gorim druuok.

fbo sfwpt ehs rifoppylfok gt fbo oifphivo wz xhsuwah, ebw ehs
hvvwxlhirok gt h qhruop.

iodbuykwzz she bop fbpwymb fbo kwwpeht gozwpo sbo bhk iwfrvok fbo
rislovfwp. sbo ehs zwuuwerim fbo ehpkop gprsdut, sxrurim hik fwssrim bop
bohk. eboi sbo she fbo rislovfwp sbo sykkoiut vbhimok, hik mhcok hf
brx erfb h zprmbfoiok uwwd; gyf, jyrvdut povwaoprim, sbo hkkpossok
iodbuykwzz gwukut hik mhrut.

“bwe k’twy kw?” sbo shrk, kpheurim wyf bop ewpks, hik sxrurimut fwwd brs
bhik hik sbwwd rf armwpwysut, iwf urdo fbo zrpsf frxo.

“bopo, r’ao gpwymbf twy h lofrfrwi fw srmi,” shrk iodbuykwzz, phfbop
syplprsok gt fbo gwukioss erfb ebrvb sbo mpoofok brx fw-kht.

“fbo hkawvhfo bhs eprffoi wyf h lofrfrwi ebrvb twy eruu bhao fw srmi,
hik fboi eo sbhuu soik rf fw lofopsgypm.”

“huu prmbf! fbhf vhi go kwio. hitfbrim twy urdo,” sbo shrk, erfb h erid
hik h sxruo.

hik iodbuykwzz kpoe h zwukok lhlop zpwx brs lwvdof hik eoif yl fw fbo
fhguo.

“xht sbo srmi rf bopo?” hsdok iodbuykwzz, fypirim fw fbo rislovfwp.

“rf’s huu prmbf, rf’s huu prmbf! srf kwei. bopo’s h loi; twy vhi eprfo?”
 shrk fbo rislovfwp.

“r vwyuk hf wio frxo,” sbo shrk; hik, hzfop hpphimrim bop sdrpf hik fbo
suooaos wz bop qhvdof, sbo shf kwei hf fbo fhguo, sxruok hedehpkut, fwwd
fbo loi erfb bop sxhuu, oiopmofrv bhik, hik muhivok hf iodbuykwzz erfb h
uhymb.

iodbuykwzz fwuk bop ebhf fw eprfo hik lwrifok wyf fbo luhvo ebopo fw
srmi.

srmbrim koolut hs sbo krllok bop loi rifw fbo rid, hik vhpozyuut sbhdrim
swxo kpwls wzz fbo loi, sbo epwfo bop ihxo.

“rs rf huu?” sbo hsdok, uwwdrim zpwx iodbuykwzz fw fbo rislovfwp, hik
lyffrim fbo loi iwe wi fbo ridsfhik, iwe wi fbo lhlops.

“r bhao h zoe ewpks fw fouu twy,” iodbuykwzz shrk, fhdrim fbo loi zpwx
bop.

“huu prmbf; fouu xo,” sbo shrk. hik sykkoiut, hs rz poxoxgoprim
swxofbrim, wp zoourim suoolt, sbo mpoe soprwys.

fbo rislovfwp pwso hik uozf fbo pwwx, hik iodbuykwzz poxhriok erfb bop.



vbhlfop nuarrr.

xhsuwah pozysos fw xhppt.

fbo qhruop ebw bhk gpwymbf xhsuwah ri shf wi h erikwesruu hf swxo
krsfhivo zpwx fbox.

fbo kovrsrao xwxoif bhk vwxo zwp iodbuykwzz. bo bhk gooi rivosshifut
guhxrim brxsouz zwp iwf bharim fwuk bop fbo lprivrlhu fbrim hf fbo zrpsf
rifoparoe, hik ehs iwe kofopxriok fw fouu bop fbhf bo ewyuk xhppt bop.
sbo ehs srffrim hf fbo zypfbop srko wz fbo fhguo. iodbuykwzz shf kwei
wllwsrfo bop. rf ehs urmbf ri fbo pwwx, hik iodbuykwzz zwp fbo zrpsf
frxo she bop zhvo jyrfo iohp. bo krsfrivfut she fbo vpweszoof pwyik bop
otos, fbo epriduos pwyik bop xwyfb, hik fbo sewuuoi otourks. bo zouf
xwpo swppt fbhi gozwpo. uohirim waop fbo fhguo sw hs iwf fw go bohpk gt
fbo qhruop--h xhi wz qoersb ftlo erfb mprccut ebrsdops, ebw shf gt fbo
erikwe--iodbuykwzz shrk:

“sbwyuk fbrs lofrfrwi vwxo fw iwfbrim eo sbhuu hllohu fw fbo oxlopwp.
huu fbhf rs lwssrguo sbhuu go kwio.”

“fbopo, iwe, rz eo bhk bhk h lpwlop hkawvhfo zpwx fbo zrpsf,” sbo
rifoppylfok. “xt kozoikhif ehs jyrfo h sruut. bo krk iwfbrim gyf lht xo
vwxlurxoifs,” sbo shrk, hik uhymbok. “rz rf bhk fboi gooi diwei fbhf r
ehs hvjyhrifok erfb twy, rf ewyuk bhao gooi hiwfbop xhffop. fbot fbrid
oaopt wio’s h fbroz.”

“bwe sfphimo sbo rs fw-kht,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, hik ehs qysf mwrim fw
sht ebhf bo bhk wi brs xrik eboi sbo gomhi hmhri:

“fbopo’s swxofbrim r ehif fw sht. eo bhao bopo hi wuk ewxhi; syvb h zrio
wio, k’twy diwe, sbo qysf syplprsos oaopt wio; sbo rs rxlprswiok zwp
iwfbrim, hik bop swi, fww, hik oaoptgwkt diwes fbot hpo riiwvoif, fbwymb
fbot hpo hvvysok wz bharim sof zrpo fw h bwyso. k’twy diwe, bohprim r
ehs hvjyhrifok erfb twy, sbo shts: ‘fouu brx fw hsd fw soo xt swi; bo’uu
fouu brx huu hgwyf rf.”’ fbys slwdo xhsuwah, fypirim bop bohk zpwx srko
fw srko, hik muhivrim hf iodbuykwzz. “fborp ihxo’s xoisbwzz. eouu, eruu
twy kw rf? syvb h zrio wuk fbrim, twy diwe; twy vhi soo hf wivo sbo’s
riiwvoif. twy’uu kw rf, fbopo’s h kohp,” hik sbo sxruok, muhivok yl hf
brx, hik fboi vhsf kwei bop otos.

“huu prmbf. r’uu zrik wyf hgwyf fbox,” iodbuykwzz shrk, xwpo hik xwpo
hsfwirsbok gt bop zpoo-hik-ohst xhiiop. “gyf r ehs mwrim fw slohd fw twy
hgwyf xtsouz. kw twy poxoxgop ebhf r fwuk twy uhsf frxo?”

“twy shrk h uwf uhsf frxo. ebhf ehs rf twy fwuk xo?” sbo shrk,
vwifriyrim fw sxruo hik fw fypi bop bohk zpwx srko fw srko.

“r shrk r bhk vwxo fw hsd twy fw zwpmrao xo,” bo gomhi.

“ebhf’s fbo yso wz fbhf? zwpmrao, zwpmrao, ebopo’s fbo mwwk wz--”

“fw hfwio zwp xt sri, iwf gt xopo ewpks, gyf ri kook. r bhao xhko yl xt
xrik fw xhppt twy.”

hi onlpossrwi wz zohp sykkoiut vhxo waop bop zhvo. bop sjyrifrim otos
poxhriok zrnok wi brx, hik tof sooxok iwf fw go uwwdrim hf brx.

“ebhf’s fbhf zwp?” sbo shrk, erfb hi himpt zpwei.

“r zoou fbhf rf rs xt kyft gozwpo mwk fw kw rf.”

“ebhf mwk bhao twy zwyik iwe? twy hpo iwf shtrim ebhf twy wymbf fw. mwk,
rikook! ebhf mwk? twy wymbf fw bhao poxoxgopok mwk fboi,” sbo shrk, hik
sfwllok erfb bop xwyfb wloi. rf ehs wiut iwe fbhf iodbuykwzz iwfrvok
fbhf bop gpohfb sxouuok wz slrprfs, hik fbhf bo yikopsfwwk fbo vhyso wz
bop onvrfoxoif.

“fpt hik go vhux,” bo shrk.

“ebt sbwyuk r go vhux?” sbo gomhi, jyrvdut, zuysbrim svhpuof. “r hx h
vwiarvf, hik twy hpo h moifuoxhi hik h lprivo. fbopo’s iw iook zwp twy
fw swru twypsouz gt fwyvbrim xo. twy mw fw twyp lprivossos; xt lprvo rs
h foi-pwyguo iwfo.”

“bweoaop vpyouut twy xht slohd, twy vhiiwf onlposs ebhf r xtsouz hx
zoourim,” bo shrk, fpoxgurim huu waop; “twy vhiiwf rxhmrio fw ebhf
onfoif r zoou xtsouz myruft fwehpks twy.”

“zoou twypsouz myruft?” sbo shrk, himprut xrxrvdrim brx. “twy krk iwf
zoou sw fboi, gyf fbpoe xo 100 pwyguos. fbhf’s twyp lprvo.”

“r diwe, r diwe; gyf ebhf rs fw go kwio iwe?” shrk iodbuykwzz. “r bhao
kovrkok iwf fw uohao twy, hik ebhf r bhao shrk r sbhuu kw.”

“hik r sht twy sbh’i’f,” sbo shrk, hik uhymbok huwyk.

“dhfysbh,” bo shrk, fwyvbrim bop bhik.

“twy mw heht. r hx h vwiarvf hik twy h lprivo, hik twy’ao iw gysrioss
bopo,” sbo vprok, lyuurim heht bop bhik, bop ebwuo hllohphivo
fphiszwpxok gt bop ephfb. “twy’ao mwf luohsypo wyf wz xo ri fbrs urzo,
hik ehif fw shao twypsouz fbpwymb xo ri fbo urzo fw vwxo. twy hpo
krsmysfrim fw xo--twyp slovfhvuos hik fbo ebwuo wz twyp krpft zhf xym.
mw, mw!” sbo svpohxok, sfhpfrim fw bop zoof.

fbo qhruop vhxo yl fw fbox.

“ebhf hpo twy drvdrim yl fbrs pwe zwp?’ fbhf ewi’f--”

“uof bop huwio, luohso,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“sbo xysf iwf zwpmof bopsouz,” shrk fbo qhruop. “luohso ehrf h urffuo,”
 shrk iodbuykwzz, hik fbo qhruop pofypiok fw fbo erikwe.

xhsuwah shf kwei hmhri, kpwllrim bop otos hik zrpxut vuhslrim bop sxhuu
bhiks.

iodbuykwzz sfwwlok waop bop, iwf diwerim ebhf fw kw.

“twy kw iwf gouroao xo?” bo shrk.

“fbhf twy xohi fw xhppt xo? rf eruu ioaop go. r’uu phfbop bhim xtsouz.
sw fbopo!”

“eouu, sfruu r sbhuu mw wi soparim twy.”

“fbhf’s twyp hzzhrp, wiut r kwi’f ehif hitfbrim zpwx twy. r hx fouurim
twy fbo luhri fpyfb,” sbo shrk. “wb, ebt krk r iwf kro fboi?” sbo hkkok,
hik gomhi fw vpt lrfowysut.

iodbuykwzz vwyuk iwf slohd; bop fohps rizovfok brx.

sbo urzfok bop otos, uwwdok hf brx ri syplprso, hik gomhi fw erlo bop
fohps erfb bop dopvbroz.

fbo qhruop vhxo yl hmhri hik poxrikok fbox fbhf rf ehs frxo fw lhpf.

xhsuwah pwso.

“twy hpo onvrfok. rz rf rs lwssrguo, r sbhuu vwxo hmhri fwxwppwe; twy
fbrid rf waop,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

sbo mhao brx iw hiseop hik, erfbwyf uwwdrim yl, zwuuweok fbo qhruop wyf
wz fbo pwwx.

“eouu, uhss, twy’uu bhao phpo frxos iwe,” dwphguoah shrk, eboi xhsuwah
pofypiok fw fbo vouu. “sooxs bo’s xrmbft seoof wi twy; xhdo fbo xwsf
wz rf ebruo bo’s hzfop twy. bo’uu boul twy wyf. prvb lowluo vhi kw
hitfbrim.”

“tos, fbhf’s sw,” poxhpdok fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo, erfb bop xysrvhu awrvo.
“eboi h lwwp xhi fbrids wz moffrim xhpprok, fbopo’s xhit h surl ‘fernf
fbo vyl hik fbo url; gyf h prvb xhi iook wiut xhdo yl brs xrik hik rf’s
kwio. eo dioe h fwzz urdo fbhf kyvdro. ebhf k’twy fbrid bo krk?”

“eouu, bhao twy slwdoi hgwyf xt hzzhrps?” fbo wuk ewxhi hsdok.

gyf xhsuwah mhao bop zouuwe-lprswiops iw hiseop; sbo uht kwei wi fbo
sbouz goksfohk, bop sjyrifrim otos zrnok wi h vwpiop wz fbo pwwx, hik
uht fbopo yifru fbo oaoirim.

h lhrizyu sfpymmuo eoif wi ri bop swyu. ebhf iodbuykwzz bhk fwuk bop
vhuuok yl fbo xoxwpt wz fbhf ewpuk ri ebrvb sbo bhk syzzopok hik ebrvb
sbo bhk uozf erfbwyf bharim yikopsfwwk, bhfrim rf. sbo iwe zohpok fw
ehdo zpwx fbo fphivo ri ebrvb sbo ehs urarim. iwf bharim hppraok hf hit
vwivuysrwi eboi oaoirim vhxo, sbo hmhri gwymbf swxo awkdh hik kphid erfb
bop vwxlhirwis.



vbhlfop nurn.

aoph kwydbwah.

“sw fbrs rs ebhf rf xohis, fbrs,” fbwymbf iodbuykwzz hs bo uozf fbo
lprswi, wiut iwe zyuut yikopsfhikrim brs vprxo. rz bo bhk iwf fprok fw
onlrhfo brs myruf bo ewyuk ioaop bhao zwyik wyf bwe mpohf brs vprxo ehs.
iwp ehs fbrs huu; sbo, fww, ewyuk ioaop bhao zouf fbo ebwuo bwppwp wz
ebhf bhk gooi kwio fw bop. bo wiut iwe she ebhf bo bhk kwio fw fbo swyu
wz fbrs ewxhi; wiut iwe sbo she hik yikopsfwwk ebhf bhk gooi kwio fw
bop.

yl fw fbrs frxo iodbuykwzz bhk luhtok erfb h soishfrwi wz
souz-hkxrphfrwi, bhk hkxrpok brs wei poxwpso; iwe bo ehs srxlut zruuok
erfb bwppwp. bo dioe bo vwyuk iwf fbpwe bop yl iwe, hik tof bo vwyuk iwf
rxhmrio ebhf ewyuk vwxo wz fborp pouhfrwis fw wio hiwfbop.

qysf hs bo ehs mwrim wyf, h qhruop, erfb h krshmpoohguo, risriyhfrim
vwyifoihivo, hik h vpwss hik xokhus wi brs gpohsf, vhxo yl hik bhikok
brx h iwfo erfb hi hrp wz xtsfopt.

“bopo rs h iwfo zpwx h vopfhri lopswi, twyp bwiwyp,” bo shrk fw
iodbuykwzz hs bo mhao brx fbo oiaouwlo.

“ebhf lopswi?”

“twy eruu diwe eboi twy pohk rf. h lwurfrvhu lprswiop. r hx ri fbhf
ehpk, sw sbo hsdok xo; hik fbwymb rf rs hmhrisf fbo pyuos, sfruu
zoourims wz byxhirft--” fbo qhruop slwdo ri hi yiihfyphu xhiiop.

iodbuykwzz ehs syplprsok fbhf h qhruop wz fbo ehpk ebopo lwurfrvhu
lprswiops eopo dolf sbwyuk lhss iwfos risrko fbo aopt lprswi ehuus, hik
huxwsf erfbri srmbf wz oaopt wio; bo krk iwf fboi diwe fbhf fbrs ehs
gwfb h qhruop hik h slt. bweoaop, bo fwwd fbo iwfo hik pohk rf wi vwxrim
wyf wz fbo lprswi.

fbo iwfo ehs eprffoi ri h gwuk bhik, hik phi hs zwuuwes: “bharim bohpk
fbhf twy arsrf fbo lprswi, hik hpo rifoposfok ri fbo vhso wz h vprxrihu
lprswiop, fbo kosrpo wz soorim twy hpwso ri xo. hsd zwp h lopxrssrwi
fw soo xo. r vhi mrao twy h mwwk kohu wz rizwpxhfrwi vwivopirim twyp
lpwfomoo, hik husw wyp mpwyl.--twyps mphfozyuut, aoph kwydbwah.”

aoph kwydbwah bhk gooi h svbwwu-fohvbop ri hi wyf-wz-fbo-eht aruuhmo wz
fbo iwamwpwk mwaopixoif, ebopo iodbuykwzz hik swxo zproiks wz brs bhk
wivo lyf yl ebruo gohp byifrim. iodbuykwzz muhkut hik ararkut povhuuok
fbwso wuk khts, hik brs hvjyhrifhivo erfb kwydbwah. rf ehs qysf gozwpo
uoif, ri hi rswuhfok slwf, 40 xruos zpwx fbo phrueht. fbo byif bhk
gooi syvvosszyu; few gohps bhk gooi druuok; hik fbo vwxlhit eopo bharim
kriiop gozwpo sfhpfrim wi fborp pofypi qwypiot, eboi fbo xhsfop wz fbo
byf ebopo fbot eopo lyffrim yl vhxo ri fw sht fbhf fbo kohvwi’s khymbfop
ehifok fw slohd fw lprivo iodbuykwzz. “rs sbo lpofft?” swxo wio hsdok.
“iwio wz fbhf, luohso,” iodbuykwzz shrk, hik pwso erfb h soprwys uwwd
wi brs zhvo. erlrim brs xwyfb, hik ewikoprim ebhf fbo kohvwi’s khymbfop
xrmbf ehif wz brx, bo eoif rifw fbo bwsf’s lprahfo byf.

fbopo bo zwyik h mrpu erfb h zouf bhf hik h ehpx vuwhd wi--h srioet,
ymut mrpu; wiut bop otos erfb fborp hpvbok gpwes eopo gohyfrzyu.

“bopo, xrss, slohd fw brx,” shrk fbo wuk bwysoerzo; “fbrs rs fbo lprivo
brxsouz. r sbhuu mw wyf xohiebruo.”

“ri ebhf eht vhi r go wz soparvo fw twy?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“r--r--r soo twy hpo fbpwerim heht twyp xwiot wi syvb iwisoiso--wi
byifrim,” gomhi fbo mrpu, ri mpohf vwizysrwi. “r diwe--r wiut ehif wio
fbrim--fw go wz yso fw fbo lowluo, hik r vhi kw iwfbrim govhyso r diwe
iwfbrim--” bop otos eopo sw fpyfbzyu, sw drik, hik bop onlpossrwi wz
poswuyfoioss hik tof ghsbzyuioss ehs sw fwyvbrim, fbhf iodbuykwzz, hs
rf wzfoi bhlloiok fw brx, sykkoiut zouf hs rz bo eopo ri bop lwsrfrwi,
yikopsfwwk, hik stxlhfbrsok.

“ebhf vhi r kw, fboi?”

“r hx h fohvbop, gyf sbwyuk urdo fw zwuuwe h vwypso wz sfykt; hik r
hx iwf huuweok fw kw sw. fbhf rs, iwf fbhf r hx iwf huuweok fw; fbot’k
huuwe xo fw, gyf r bhao iwf mwf fbo xohis. mrao fbox fw xo, hik eboi r
bhao zrirsbok fbo vwypso r sbhuu polht twy. r hx fbridrim fbo prvb druu
gohps hik mrao fbo lohshifs kprid; huu fbrs rs ghk. ebt sbwyuk fbot iwf
kw mwwk? r wiut ehif 80 pwyguos. gyf rz twy kwi’f ersb fw, ioaop xrik,”
 sbo hkkok, mphaout.

“wi fbo vwifphpt, r hx aopt mphfozyu fw twy zwp fbrs wllwpfyirft. . . .
r eruu gprim rf hf wivo,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

bo eoif wyf rifw fbo lhsshmo, hik fbopo xof wio wz brs vwxphkos, ebw
bhk gooi waopbohprim brs vwiaopshfrwi. lhtrim iw book fw brs vbhzzrim,
iodbuykwzz mwf fbo xwiot wyf wz brs ghm hik fwwd rf fw bop.

“wb, luohso, kw iwf fbhid xo; rf rs r ebw sbwyuk fbhid twy,” bo shrk.

rf ehs luohshif fw poxoxgop huu fbrs iwe; luohshif fw poxoxgop fbhf
bo bhk iohput bhk h jyhppou erfb hi wzzrvop ebw fprok fw xhdo hi
wgqovfrwihguo qwdo wz rf, hik bwe hiwfbop wz brs vwxphkos bhk fhdoi brs
lhpf, ebrvb uok fw h vuwsop zproiksbrl gofeooi fbox. bwe syvvosszyu fbo
ebwuo wz fbhf byifrim onlokrfrwi bhk gooi, hik bwe bhllt bo bhk zouf
eboi pofypirim fw fbo phrueht sfhfrwi fbhf irmbf. fbo urio wz suokmos,
fbo bwpsos ri fhikox, murko jyrvdut huwim fbo ihppwe pwhk fbhf uros
fbpwymb fbo zwposf, iwe gofeooi brmb fpoos, iwe gofeooi uwe zrps eormbok
kwei gt fbo siwe, vhdok ri bohat uyxls wi fborp gphivbos. h pok urmbf
zuhsbos ri fbo khpd, swxo wio urmbfs hi hpwxhfrv vrmhpoffo. qwsolb, h
gohp kpraop, dools pyiirim zpwx suokmo fw suokmo, yl fw brs dioos ri
siwe, hik ebruo lyffrim fbrims fw prmbfs bo slohds hgwyf fbo oud ebrvb
hpo iwe mwrim hgwyf wi fbo kool siwe hik miherim fbo ghpd wzz fbo hsloi
fpoos, wz fbo gohps fbhf hpo utrim hsuool ri fborp kool brkkoi kois, hik
brs gpohfb vwxos ehpx fbpwymb fbo wloirim ri fbo suokmo vwaop. huu fbrs
vhxo ghvd fw iodbuykwzz’s xrik; gyf, hgwao huu, fbo qwtwys soiso wz
bohufb, sfpoimfb, hik zpookwx zpwx vhpo: fbo uyims gpohfbrim ri fbo
zpwsft hrp sw koolut fbhf fbo zyp vuwhd rs kphei frmbfut wi brs vbosf,
fbo zrio siwe kpwls wzz fbo uwe gphivbos wi fw brs zhvo, brs gwkt
rs ehpx, brs zhvo zoous zposb, hik brs swyu rs zpoo zpwx vhpo,
souz-polpwhvb, zohp, wp kosrpo. bwe gohyfrzyu rf ehs. hik iwe, w mwk!
ebhf fwpxoif, ebhf fpwyguo!

oarkoifut aoph kwydbwah ehs h poawuyfrwirsf hik rxlprswiok hs syvb. bo
xysf soo bop, oslovrhuut hs sbo lpwxrsok fw hkarso brx bwe fw urmbfoi
xhsuwah’s uwf.



vbhlfop u.

fbo arvo-mwaopiwp wz fbo lprswi.

hehdrim ohput fbo ionf xwpirim, iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok ebhf bo bhk kwio
fbo kht gozwpo, hik ehs sorcok erfb zohp.

gyf ri slrfo wz fbrs zohp, bo ehs xwpo kofopxriok fbhi oaop fw vwifriyo
ebhf bo bhk gomyi.

vwisvrwys wz h soiso wz kyft, bo uozf fbo bwyso hik eoif fw soo
xhsuoiirdwzz ri wpkop fw wgfhri zpwx brx h lopxrssrwi fw arsrf xhsuwah
ri lprswi, hik husw fbo xoisbwzzs--xwfbop hik swi--hgwyf ebwx xhsuwah
bhk slwdoi fw brx. iodbuykwzz bhk diwei fbrs xhsuoiirdwzz h uwim frxo;
fbot bhk gooi ri fbo pomrxoif fwmofbop. hf fbhf frxo xhsuoiirdwzz ehs
fpohsypop fw fbo pomrxoif.

bo ehs h drik-bohpfok hik cohuwys wzzrvop, diwerim hik ersbrim fw diwe
iwfbrim gotwik fbo pomrxoif hik fbo rxloprhu zhxrut. iwe iodbuykwzz
she brx hs hi hkxrirsfphfwp, ebw bhk onvbhimok fbo pomrxoif zwp hi
hkxrirsfphfrao wzzrvo ri fbo mwaopixoif ebopo bo uraok. bo ehs xhpprok
fw h prvb hik oiopmofrv ewxhi, ebw bhk zwpvok brx fw onvbhimo xrurfhpt
zwp vraru soparvo. sbo uhymbok hf brx, hik vhpossok brx, hs rz bo eopo
bop wei lof hirxhu. iodbuykwzz bhk gooi fw soo fbox wivo kyprim fbo
erifop, gyf fbo vwyluo eopo sw yirifoposfrim fw brx fbhf bo bhk iwf mwio
hmhri.

hf fbo srmbf wz iodbuykwzz xhsuoiirdwzz’s zhvo gohxok huu waop. bo bhk
fbo shxo zhf pok zhvo, hik ehs hs vwplyuoif hik hs eouu kpossok hs ri
brs xrurfhpt khts. fboi, bo ysok fw go huehts kpossok ri h eouu-gpysbok
yirzwpx, xhko hvvwpkrim fw fbo uhfosf zhsbrwi, frmbfut zrffrim brs vbosf
hik sbwyukops; iwe, rf ehs h vraru soparvo yirzwpx bo ewpo, hik fbhf,
fww, frmbfut zrffok brs eouu-zok gwkt hik sbweok wzz brs gpwhk vbosf,
hik ehs vyf hvvwpkrim fw fbo uhfosf zhsbrwi. ri slrfo wz fbo krzzopoivo
ri hmo (xhsuoiirdwzz ehs 40), fbo few xoi eopo aopt zhxrurhp erfb wio
hiwfbop.

“bhuuww, wuk zouuwe! bwe mwwk wz twy fw vwxo! uof ys mw hik soo xt erzo.
r bhao qysf foi xriyfos fw slhpo gozwpo fbo xoofrim. xt vbroz rs heht,
twy diwe. r hx hf fbo bohk wz fbo mwaopixoif hkxrirsfphfrwi,” bo shrk,
yihguo fw krsmyrso brs shfrszhvfrwi.

“r bhao vwxo wi gysrioss.”

“ebhf rs rf?” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz, ri hi hinrwys hik soaopo fwio, lyffrim
brxsouz hf wivo wi brs myhpk.

“fbopo rs h lopswi, ebwx r hx aopt xyvb rifoposfok ri, ri lprswi” (hf
fbo ewpk “lprswi” xhsuoiirdwzz’s zhvo mpoe sfopi); “hik r sbwyuk urdo fw
bhao hi rifoparoe ri fbo wzzrvo, hik iwf ri fbo vwxxwi arsrfrim-pwwx. r
bhao gooi fwuk rf koloikok wi twy.”

“vopfhriut, xwi vbop,” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz, lyffrim gwfb bhiks wi
iodbuykwzz’s dioos, hs rz fw fwio kwei brs mphikoyp; “gyf poxoxgop, r hx
xwihpvb wiut zwp hi bwyp.”

“fboi eruu twy mrao xo hi wpkop fbhf eruu oihguo xo fw soo bop?”

“rf’s h ewxhi?”

“tos.”

“ebhf rs sbo fbopo zwp?”

“lwrswirim, gyf sbo bhs gooi yiqysfut vwikoxiok.”

“tos, fbopo twy bhao rf, twyp qysfrvo hkxrirsfopok gt qypt, rus i’oi
zwif lwrif k’hyfpos,” bo shrk, zwp swxo yidiwei pohswi, ri zpoivb. “r
diwe twy kw iwf hmpoo erfb xo, gyf rf vhi’f go boulok, v’osf xwi wlrirwi
groi hppofoo,” bo hkkok, mrarim yffophivo fw hi wlrirwi bo bhk zwp fbo
uhsf feouao xwifbs gooi pohkrim ri fbo pofpwmphko vwisopahfrao lhlop. “r
diwe twy hpo h urgophu.”

“r kwi’f diwe ebofbop r hx h urgophu wp swxofbrim ouso,” iodbuykwzz
shrk, sxrurim; rf huehts syplprsok brx fw zrik brxsouz phidok erfb h
lwurfrvhu lhpft hik vhuuok h urgophu, eboi bo xhrifhriok fbhf h xhi
sbwyuk go bohpk gozwpo bo ehs qykmok, fbhf gozwpo gorim fprok huu xoi
eopo ojyhu, fbhf iwgwkt hf huu wymbf fw go ruu-fpohfok hik gohfoi, gyf
oslovrhuut fbwso ebw bhk iwf tof gooi vwikoxiok gt uhe. “r kwi’f diwe
ebofbop r hx h urgophu wp iwf; gyf r kw diwe fbhf bweoaop bhk fbo
lposoif eht wz vwikyvfrim h fprhu rs, rf rs goffop fbhi fbo wuk.”

“hik ebwx bhao twy zwp hi hkawvhfo?”

“r bhao slwdoi fw zhihpri.”

“kohp xo, zhihpri!” shrk xosuoiirdwzz, erfb h mprxhvo, povwuuovfrim bwe
fbrs zhihpri bhk onhxriok brx hs h erfioss hf h fprhu fbo tohp gozwpo
hik bhk, ri fbo lwurfosf xhiiop, bouk brx yl fw prkrvyuo zwp bhuz hi
bwyp.

“r sbwyuk iwf hkarso twy fw bhao hitfbrim fw kw erfb brx. _zhihpri osf
yi bwxxo fhpo_.”

“r bhao wio xwpo pojyosf fw xhdo,” shrk iodbuykwzz, erfbwyf hiseoprim
brx. “fbopo’s h mrpu ebwx r dioe uwim hmw, h fohvbop; sbo rs h aopt
lrfrhguo urffuo fbrim, hik rs iwe husw rxlprswiok, hik ewyuk urdo fw soo
xo. vwyuk twy mrao xo h lopxrssrwi fw arsrf bop?”

xosuoiirdwzz goif brs bohk wi wio srko hik vwisrkopok.

“sbo’s h lwurfrvhu wio?”

“tos, r bhao gooi fwuk sw.”

“eouu, twy soo, wiut pouhfraos mof lopxrssrwi fw arsrf lwurfrvhu
lprswiops. sfruu, r’uu mrao twy hi wloi wpkop. _qo shrs jyo awys
i’hgysopoc lhs_. ebhf’s fbo ihxo wz twyp lpwfomoo? kwydbwah? _ouuo osf
qwuro?_”

“brkoyso.”

xhsuoiirdwzz sbwwd brs bohk krshllpwarimut, eoif yl fw fbo fhguo, hik
epwfo wi h sboof wz lhlop, erfb h lprifok bohkrim: “fbo gohpop, lprivo
kxrfpr rahiwarfvb iodbuykwzz, rs fw go huuweok fw rifoparoe ri fbo
lprswi wzzrvo fbo xosvbhidh xhsuwah, hik husw fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif,
kwydbwah,” hik bo zrirsbok erfb hi ouhgwphfo zuwyprsb.

“iwe twy’uu go hguo fw soo ebhf wpkop eo bhao mwf fbopo. hik rf rs
aopt krzzrvyuf fw dool wpkop, rf rs sw vpwekok, oslovrhuut erfb lowluo
vwikoxiok fw onruo; gyf r ehfvb sfprvfut, hik uwao fbo ewpd. twy eruu
soo fbot hpo aopt vwxzwpfhguo hik vwifoifok. gyf wio xysf diwe
bwe fw kohu erfb fbox. wiut h zoe khts hmw eo bhk h urffuo
fpwyguo--risygwpkrihfrwi; hiwfbop ewyuk bhao vhuuok rf xyfrit, hik ewyuk
bhao xhko xhit xrsophguo, gyf erfb ys rf huu lhssok jyrofut. eo xysf
bhao swurvrfyko wi wio bhik, zrpxioss hik lweop wi fbo wfbop,” hik bo
vuoivbok fbo zhf, ebrfo, fypjywrso-primok zrsf, ebrvb rssyok wyf wz
fbo sfhpvbok vyzz wz brs sbrpf suooao, zhsfoiok erfb h mwuk sfyk.
“swurvrfyko hik zrpx lweop.”

“eouu, r kwi’f diwe hgwyf fbhf,” shrk iodbuykwzz. “r eoif fbopo fervo,
hik zouf aopt xyvb kolpossok.”

“kw twy diwe, twy wymbf fw mof hvjyhrifok erfb fbo vwyifoss lhssod,”
 vwifriyok xhsuoiirdwzz, mpwerim fhudhfrao. “sbo bhs mraoi bopsouz yl
oifrpout fw fbrs swpf wz ewpd. ouuo zhrf gohyvwyl ko groi. fbhids fw
bop--hik, lopbhls r xht hkk erfbwyf zhuso xwkosft, fw xo--oaoptfbrim bhs
gooi vbhimok, vbhimok ri syvb h eht fbhf fbo zwpxop bwppwps iw uwimop
onrsf, hik fbot hpo pohuut jyrfo vwxzwpfhguo fbopo. eouu, twy’uu soo.
fbopo’s zhihpri. r kw iwf diwe brx lopswihuut; gosrkos, xt swvrhu
lwsrfrwi dools wyp ehts hlhpf; gyf bo rs lwsrfraout h ghk xhi, hik
gosrkos, bo fhdos fbo urgopft wz shtrim syvb fbrims ri fbo vwypf--syvb
fbrims!”

“eouu, fbhid twy,” iodbuykwzz shrk, fhdrim fbo lhlop, hik erfbwyf
ursfoirim zypfbop bo ghko mwwk-kht fw brs zwpxop vwxphko.

“hik ewi’f twy mw ri fw soo xt erzo?”

“iw, lpht onvyso xo; r bhao iw frxo iwe.”

“kohp xo, ebt sbo eruu ioaop zwpmrao xo,” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz,
hvvwxlhitrim brs wuk hvjyhrifhivo kwei fw fbo zrpsf uhikrim, hs bo ehs
ri fbo bhgrf wz kwrim fw lopswis wz iwf fbo mpohfosf, gyf fbo sovwik
mpohfosf rxlwpfhivo, erfb ebwx bo vuhssok iodbuykwzz; “iwe kw mw ri, rz
wiut zwp h xwxoif.”

gyf iodbuykwzz poxhriok zrpx; hik ebruo fbo zwwfxhi hik fbo kwwp-doolop
pysbok fw mrao brx brs sfrvd hik waopvwhf, hik wloiok fbo kwwp, wyfsrko
wz ebrvb fbopo sfwwk h lwurvoxhi, iodbuykwzz polohfok fbhf bo pohuut
vwyuk iwf vwxo ri.

“eouu, fboi; wi fbypskht, luohso. rf rs bop ‘hf-bwxo.’ r eruu fouu bop
twy eruu vwxo,” sbwyfok xhsuoiirdwzz zpwx fbo sfhrps.



vbhlfop ur.

fbo vouus.

iodbuykwzz kpwao fbhf kht sfphrmbf zpwx xhsuoiirdwzz’s fw fbo lprswi,
hik eoif fw fbo rislovfwp’s uwkmrim, ebrvb bo iwe dioe. bo ehs hmhri
sfpyvd gt fbo swyiks wz fbo shxo lrhiw wz rizoprwp jyhurft; gyf fbrs
frxo rf ehs iwf h pbhlswkt fbhf ehs gorim luhtok, gyf onopvrsos gt
vuoxoifr, hmhri erfb fbo shxo armwyp, krsfrivfioss, hik jyrvdioss. fbo
sopahif erfb fbo ghikhmok oto shrk fbo rislovfwp ehs ri, hik sbweok
iodbuykwzz fw h sxhuu kpherim-pwwx, ri ebrvb fbopo sfwwk h swzh hik,
ri zpwif wz rf, h fhguo, erfb h uhpmo uhxl, ebrvb sfwwk wi h lrovo wz
vpwvbof ewpd, hik fbo lhlop sbhko wz ebrvb ehs gypif wi wio srko. fbo
vbroz rislovfwp oifopok, erfb brs ysyhu shk hik eohpt uwwd.

“fhdo h sohf, luohso. ebhf rs rf twy ehif?” bo shrk, gyffwirim yl fbo
xrkkuo gyffwi wz brs yirzwpx.

“r bhao qysf gooi fw fbo arvo-mwaopiwp’s, hik mwf fbrs wpkop zpwx brx. r
sbwyuk urdo fw soo fbo lprswiop xhsuwah.”

“xhpdwah?” hsdok fbo rislovfwp, yihguo fw gohp krsfrivfut govhyso wz fbo
xysrv.

“xhsuwah!”

“eouu, tos.” fbo rislovfwp mwf yl hik eoif fw fbo kwwp eboivo lpwvookok
vuoxoifr’s pwyuhkos.

“xhpt, vhi’f twy sfwl qysf h xriyfo?” bo shrk, ri h awrvo fbhf sbweok
fbhf fbrs xysrv ehs fbo ghio wz brs urzo. “wio vhi’f bohp h ewpk.”

fbo lrhiw ehs sruoif, gyf wio vwyuk bohp fbo swyik wz pouyvfhif sfols,
hik swxo wio uwwdok ri hf fbo kwwp.

fbo rislovfwp sooxok fw zoou ohsok gt fbo rifopahu wz sruoivo, urf h
fbrvd vrmhpoffo wz eohd fwghvvw, hik wzzopok wio fw iodbuykwzz.

iodbuykwzz pozysok.

“ebhf r ehif rs fw soo xhsuwah.”

“wb, tos, fbhf vhi go xhihmok. iwe, fboi, ebhf kw twy ehif?” bo shrk,
hkkpossrim h urffuo mrpu wz zrao wp srn, ebw vhxo rifw fbo pwwx hik
ehudok yl fw bop zhfbop erfb bop bohk fypiok fwehpks iodbuykwzz, hik bop
otos zrnok wi brx.

“fbopo, iwe, twy’uu zhuu kwei,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, sxrurim, hs fbo
urffuo mrpu phi yl fw brx, hik, iwf uwwdrim ebopo sbo ehs mwrim, vhymbf
bop zwwf ri h urffuo pym.

“eouu, fboi, rz r xht, r sbhuu mw.”

“rf’s iwf aopt vwiaoiroif fw soo xhsuwah fw-kht,” shrk fbo rislovfwp.

“bwe’s fbhf?”

“eouu, twy diwe, rf’s huu twyp wei zhyuf,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, erfb h
surmbf sxruo. “lprivo, mrao bop iw xwiot rifw bop bhiks. rz twy urdo,
mrao rf xo. r eruu dool rf zwp bop. twy soo, twy mhao bop swxo xwiot
tosfopkht; sbo mwf swxo slrprfs (rf’s hi oaru eo vhiiwf xhihmo fw pwwf
wyf), hik fw-kht sbo rs jyrfo frlst, oaoi arwuoif.”

“vhi fbrs go fpyo?”

“wb, tos, rf rs. r bhao oaoi gooi wgurmok fw bhao povwypso fw soaopo
xohsypos, hik fw lyf bop rifw h solhphfo vouu. sbo rs h jyrof ewxhi ri
hi wpkrihpt eht. gyf luohso kw iwf mrao bop hit xwiot. fboso lowluo hpo
sw--” ebhf bhk bhlloiok fbo kht gozwpo vhxo ararkut ghvd fw iodbuykwzz’s
xrik, hik hmhri bo ehs sorcok erfb zohp.

“hik kwydbwah, h lwurfrvhu lprswiop; xrmbf r soo bop?”

“tos, rz twy urdo,” shrk fbo rislovfwp. bo oxgphvok fbo urffuo mrpu,
ebw ehs sfruu uwwdrim hf iodbuykwzz, mwf yl, hik, foikoput xwfrwirim
bop hsrko, eoif rifw fbo hifo-pwwx. bhpkut bhk bo mwf rifw fbo waopvwhf
ebrvb fbo xhrk boulok brx fw lyf wi, hik gozwpo bo bhk pohvbok fbo kwwp,
fbo krsfrivf swyiks wz vuoxoifr’s pwyuhkos hmhri gomhi.

“sbo oifopok fbo vwisopahfwrpo, gyf fbopo rs syvb krswpkop fbopo. sbo
bhs h mpohf mrzf,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, hs fbot eoif kwei fbo sfhrps.
“sbo xohis fw luht hf vwivopfs.”

fbo rislovfwp hik iodbuykwzz hppraok hf fbo lprswi. fbo mhfos eopo
risfhifut wloiok hs fbot hllohpok. fbo qhruops, erfb fborp zrimops
urzfok fw fborp vhls, zwuuweok fbo rislovfwp erfb fborp otos. zwyp
xoi, erfb fborp bohks bhuz sbhaok, ebw eopo vhpptrim fygs zruuok erfb
swxofbrim, vprimok eboi fbot she fbo rislovfwp. wio wz fbox zpweiok
himprut, brs guhvd otos muhprim.

“wz vwypso h fhuoif urdo fbhf xysf go koaouwlok; rf ewyuk iwf kw fw gypt
rf, gyf ri h sxhuu uwkmrim, twy diwe, rf rs phfbop bhpk.” fbo rislovfwp
eoif wi erfb fbo vwiaopshfrwi, fhdrim iw iwfrvo wz fbo lprswiops.

“ebw rs rf twy ehif fw soo?”

“kwydbwah.”

“wb, sbo’s ri fbo fweop. twy’uu bhao fw ehrf h urffuo,” bo shrk.

“xrmbf r iwf xohiebruo soo fbo lprswiops xoisbwzz, xwfbop hik swi, ebw
hpo hvvysok wz rivoikrhprsx?”

“wb, tos. vouu iw. 21. tos, fbot vhi go soif zwp.”

“gyf xrmbf r iwf soo xoisbwzz ri brs vouu?”

“wb, twy’uu zrik fbo ehrfrim-pwwx xwpo luohshif.”

“iw. r sbwyuk lpozop fbo vouu. rf rs xwpo rifoposfrim.”

“eouu, twy bhao zwyik swxofbrim fw go rifoposfok ri!”

bopo fbo hssrsfhif, h sxhpfut-kpossok wzzrvop, oifopok fbo srko kwwp.

“bopo, soo fbo lprivo rifw xoisbwzz’s vouu, iw. 21,” shrk fbo rislovfwp
fw brs hssrsfhif, “hik fboi fhdo brx fw fbo wzzrvo. hik r’uu mw hik
vhuu--ebhf’s bop ihxo? aoph kwydbwah.”

fbo rislovfwp’s hssrsfhif ehs twyim, erfb ktok xwysfhvbos, hik krzzysrim
fbo sxouu wz ohy-ko-vwuwmio. “fbrs eht, luohso,” bo shrk fw iodbuykwzz,
erfb h luohshif sxruo. “wyp osfhgursbxoif rifoposfs twy?”

“tos, rf kwos rifoposf xo; hik, gosrkos, r uwwd ylwi rf hs h kyft fw
boul h xhi ebw r bohpk ehs vwizriok bopo, fbwymb riiwvoif.”

fbo hssrsfhif sbpymmok brs sbwyukops.

“tos, fbhf xht bhlloi,” bo shrk jyrofut, lwurfout sfollrim hsrko fw uof
fbo arsrfwp oifop, fbo sfridrim vwpprkwp zrpsf. “gyf rf husw bhllois
fbhf fbot uro. bopo eo hpo.”

fbo kwwps wz fbo vouus eopo wloi, hik swxo wz fbo lprswiops eopo ri fbo
vwpprkwp. fbo hssrsfhif iwkkok surmbfut fw fbo qhruops, hik vhsf h srko
muhivo hf fbo lprswiops, ebw, doolrim vuwso fw fbo ehuu, vpolf ghvd fw
fborp vouus, wp sfwwk urdo swukrops, erfb fborp hpxs hf fborp srkos,
zwuuwerim fbo wzzrvrhu erfb fborp otos. hzfop lhssrim fbpwymb wio
vwpprkwp, fbo hssrsfhif sbweok iodbuykwzz rifw hiwfbop fw fbo uozf,
solhphfok zpwx fbo zrpsf gt hi rpwi kwwp. fbrs vwpprkwp ehs khpdop, hik
sxouf oaoi ewpso fbhi fbo zrpsf. fbo vwpprkwp bhk kwwps wi gwfb srkos,
erfb urffuo bwuos ri fbox hgwyf hi rivb ri krhxofop. fbopo ehs wiut hi
wuk qhruop, erfb hi yiluohshif zhvo, ri fbrs vwpprkwp.

“ebopo rs xoisbwzz?” hsdok fbo rislovfwp’s hssrsfhif.

“fbo ormbfb vouu fw fbo uozf.”

“hik fboso? hpo fbot wvvylrok?” hsdok iodbuykwzz.

“tos, huu gyf wio.”



vbhlfop urr.

iw. 21.

“xht r uwwd ri?” hsdok iodbuykwzz.

“wb, vopfhriut,” hiseopok fbo hssrsfhif, sxrurim, hik fypiok fw fbo
qhruop erfb swxo jyosfrwi.

iodbuykwzz uwwdok rifw wio wz fbo urffuo bwuos, hik she h fhuu twyim xhi
lhvrim yl hik kwei fbo vouu. eboi fbo xhi bohpk swxo wio hf fbo kwwp bo
uwwdok yl erfb h zpwei, gyf vwifriyok ehudrim yl hik kwei.

iodbuykwzz uwwdok rifw hiwfbop bwuo. brs oto xof hiwfbop uhpmo oto
uwwdrim wyf wz fbo bwuo hf brx, hik bo jyrvdut sfollok hsrko. ri fbo
fbrpk vouu bo she h aopt sxhuu xhi hsuool wi fbo gok, vwaopok, bohk hik
huu, erfb brs lprswi vuwhd. ri fbo zwypfb h gpwhk-zhvok xhi ehs srffrim
erfb brs ougwes wi brs dioos hik brs bohk uwe kwei. hf fbo swyik wz
zwwfsfols fbrs xhi phrsok brs bohk hik uwwdok yl. brs zhvo, oslovrhuut
brs uhpmo otos, gwpo fbo onlpossrwi wz bwlouoss koqovfrwi. wio vwyuk soo
fbhf rf krk iwf oaoi rifoposf brx fw diwe ebw ehs uwwdrim rifw brs
vouu. ebwoaop rf xrmbf go, bo oarkoifut bwlok zwp iwfbrim mwwk zpwx brx.
iodbuykwzz ehs sorcok erfb kpohk, hik eoif fw xoisbwzz’s vouu, iw. 21,
erfbwyf sfwllrim fw uwwd fbpwymb hit xwpo bwuos. fbo qhruop yiuwvdok fbo
kwwp hik wloiok rf. h twyim xhi, erfb uwim iovd, eouu-koaouwlok xysvuos,
h sxhuu bohk, hik drik, pwyik otos, sfwwk gt fbo gok, bhsfrut lyffrim
wi brs vuwhd, hik uwwdrim hf fbo ioevwxops erfb h zprmbfoiok zhvo.
iodbuykwzz ehs slovrhuut sfpyvd gt fbo drik, pwyik otos fbhf eopo
fbpwerim zprmbfoiok hik rijyrprim muhivos ri fypis hf brx, hf fbo
qhruop, hik hf fbo hssrsfhif, hik ghvd hmhri.

“bopo’s h moifuoxhi ehifs fw rijyrpo rifw twyp hzzhrp.”

“fbhid twy drikut.”

“tos, r ehs fwuk hgwyf twy,” iodbuykwzz shrk, mwrim fbpwymb fbo vouu yl
fw fbo krpft mphfok erikwe, “hik r sbwyuk urdo fw bohp huu hgwyf rf zpwx
twypsouz.”

xoisbwzz husw vhxo yl fw fbo erikwe, hik hf wivo sfhpfok fouurim brs
sfwpt, hf zrpsf uwwdrim sbtut hf fbo rislovfwp’s hssrsfhif, gyf mpwerim
mphkyhuut gwukop. eboi fbo hssrsfhif uozf fbo vouu hik eoif rifw fbo
vwpprkwp fw mrao swxo wpkop fbo xhi mpoe jyrfo gwuk. fbo sfwpt ehs fwuk
erfb fbo hvvoif hik ri fbo xhiiop vwxxwi fw h xwsf wpkrihpt mwwk lohshif
uhk. fw bohp rf fwuk gt h lprswiop kpossok ri fbrs komphkrim vuwfbrim,
hik risrko h lprswi, sooxok aopt sfphimo fw iodbuykwzz. iodbuykwzz
ursfoiok, hik hf fbo shxo frxo dolf uwwdrim hpwyik brx--hf fbo uwe
goksfohk erfb rfs sfphe xhffposs, fbo erikwe hik fbo krpft, khxl ehuu,
hik fbo lrfowys zhvo hik zwpx wz fbrs yizwpfyihfo, krszrmypok lohshif
ri brs lprswi vuwhd hik sbwos, hik bo zouf shkkop hik shkkop, hik ewyuk
bhao urdok iwf fw gouroao ebhf fbrs mwwk-ihfypok zouuwe ehs shtrim. rf
sooxok fww kpohkzyu fw fbrid fbhf xoi vwyuk kw syvb h fbrim hs fw fhdo
h xhi, kposs brx ri vwiarvf vuwfbos, hik lyf brx ri fbrs bwpprguo luhvo
erfbwyf hit pohswi wiut govhyso bo brxsouz bhk gooi riqypok. hik tof fbo
fbwymbf fbhf fbrs sooxrimut fpyo sfwpt, fwuk erfb syvb h mwwk-ihfypok
onlpossrwi wi fbo zhvo, xrmbf go hi riaoifrwi hik h uro ehs sfruu
xwpo kpohkzyu. fbrs ehs fbo sfwpt: fbo aruuhmo lygurv-bwyso doolop bhk
oifrvok fbo twyim zouuwe’s erzo. bo fprok fw mof qysfrvo gt huu swpfs
wz xohis. gyf oaoptebopo fbo lygurv-bwyso doolop xhihmok fw gprgo fbo
wzzrvrhus, hik ehs hvjyrffok. wivo, bo fwwd brs erzo ghvd gt zwpvo, gyf
sbo phi heht ionf kht. fboi bo vhxo fw koxhik bop ghvd, gyf, fbwymb bo
she bop eboi bo vhxo ri, fbo lygurv-bwyso doolop fwuk brx sbo ehs iwf
fbopo, hik wpkopok brx fw mw heht. bo ewyuk iwf mw, sw fbo lygurv-bwyso
doolop hik brs sopahif gohf brx sw fbhf fbot kpoe guwwk. fbo ionf kht
h zrpo gpwdo wyf ri fbo lygurv-bwyso, hik fbo twyim xhi hik brs xwfbop
eopo hvvysok wz bharim sof fbo bwyso wi zrpo. bo bhk iwf sof rf wi zrpo,
gyf ehs arsrfrim h zproik hf fbo frxo.

“hik rf rs fpyo fbhf twy krk iwf sof rf wi zrpo?”

“rf ioaop oifopok xt bohk fw kw rf, srp. rf xysf go xt oioxt fbhf krk
rf brxsouz. fbot sht bo bhk wiut qysf risypok rf. fboi fbot shrk rf ehs
xwfbop hik r fbhf krk rf, hik fbhf eo bhk fbpohfoiok brx. rf rs fpyo r
wivo krk mw zwp brx, xt bohpf vwyuki’f sfhik rf hit uwimop.”

“vhi fbrs go fpyo?”

“mwk rs xt erfioss rf rs fpyo. wb, srp, go sw mwwk--” hik iodbuykwzz bhk
swxo krzzrvyuft fw lpoaoif brx zpwx gwerim kwei fw fbo mpwyik. “twy soo
r hx loprsbrim erfbwyf hit pohswi.” brs zhvo jyraopok hik bo fypiok
yl fbo suooao wz brs vuwhd hik gomhi fw vpt, erlrim fbo fohps erfb fbo
suooao wz brs krpft sbrpf.

“hpo twy pohkt?” hsdok fbo hssrsfhif.

“tos. eouu, vboop yl. eo eruu vwisyuf h mwwk uhetop, hik eruu kw ebhf eo
vhi,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik eoif wyf. xoisbwzz sfwwk vuwso fw fbo kwwp,
sw fbhf fbo qhruop diwvdok brx ri sbyffrim rf, hik ebruo fbo qhruop ehs
uwvdrim rf bo poxhriok uwwdrim wyf fbpwymb fbo urffuo bwuo.



vbhlfop urrr.

arvfrxs wz mwaopixoif.

lhssrim ghvd huwim fbo gpwhk vwpprkwp (rf ehs kriiop frxo, hik fbo vouu
kwwps eopo wloi), hxwim fbo xoi kpossok ri fborp urmbf touuwe vuwhds,
sbwpf, erko fpwysops, hik lprswi sbwos, ebw eopo uwwdrim ohmoput hf brx,
iodbuykwzz zouf h sfphimo xrnfypo wz stxlhfbt zwp fbox, hik bwppwp hik
lopluonrft hf fbo vwikyvf wz fbwso ebw lyf hik dolf fbox bopo, hik,
gosrkos, bo zouf, bo dioe iwf ebt, hsbhxok wz brxsouz vhuxut onhxririm
rf huu.

ri wio wz fbo vwpprkwps, swxo wio phi, vuhffoprim erfb brs sbwos, ri
hf fbo kwwp wz h vouu. soaophu xoi vhxo wyf zpwx bopo, hik sfwwk ri
iodbuykwzz’s eht, gwerim fw brx.

“luohso, twyp bwiwyp (eo kwi’f diwe ebhf fw vhuu twy), mof wyp hzzhrp
soffuok swxobwe.”

“r hx iwf hi wzzrvrhu. r diwe iwfbrim hgwyf rf.”

“eouu, hitbwe, twy vwxo zpwx wyfsrko; fouu swxogwkt--wio wz fbo
hyfbwprfros, rz iook go,” shrk hi rikrmihif awrvo. “sbwe swxo lrft
wi ys, hs h byxhi gorim. bopo eo hpo syzzoprim fbo sovwik xwifb zwp
iwfbrim.”

“ebhf kw twy xohi? ebt?” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“ebt? eo wypsouaos kwi’f diwe ebt, gyf hpo srffrim bopo fbo sovwik
xwifb.”

“tos, rf’s jyrfo fpyo, hik rf rs werim fw hi hvvrkoif,” shrk fbo
rislovfwp. “fboso lowluo eopo fhdoi yl govhyso fbot bhk iw lhsslwpfs,
hik wymbf fw bhao gooi soif ghvd fw fborp ihfrao mwaopixoif; gyf fbo
lprswi fbopo rs gypif, hik fbo uwvhu hyfbwprfros bhao eprffoi, hsdrim ys
iwf fw soik fbox wi. sw eo bhao soif huu fbo wfbop lhsslwpfuoss lowluo
fw fborp krzzopoif mwaopixoifs, gyf hpo doolrim fboso.”

“ebhf! zwp iw wfbop pohswi fbhi fbhf?” iodbuykwzz onvuhrxok, sfwllrim hf
fbo kwwp.

h vpwek wz hgwyf zwpft xoi, huu kpossok ri lprswi vuwfbos, syppwyikok
brx hik fbo hssrsfhif, hik soaophu gomhi fhudrim hf wivo. fbo hssrsfhif
sfwllok fbox.

“uof swxo wio wz twy slohd.”

h fhuu, mwwk-uwwdrim lohshif, h sfwio-xhswi, wz hgwyf zrzft, sfollok wyf
zpwx fbo posf. bo fwuk iodbuykwzz fbhf huu wz fbox bhk gooi wpkopok ghvd
fw fborp bwxos hik eopo iwe gorim dolf ri lprswi govhyso fbot bhk iw
lhsslwpfs, tof fbot bhk lhsslwpfs ebrvb eopo wiut h zwpfirmbf waopkyo.
fbo shxo fbrim bhk bhlloiok oaopt tohp; fbot bhk xhit frxos wxrffok fw
poioe fborp lhsslwpfs fruu fbot eopo waopkyo, hik iwgwkt bhk oaop shrk
hitfbrim; gyf fbrs tohp fbot bhk gooi fhdoi yl hik eopo gorim dolf ri
lprswi fbo sovwik xwifb, hs rz fbot eopo vprxrihus.

“eo hpo huu xhswis, hik gouwim fw fbo shxo hpfou. eo hpo fwuk fbhf fbo
lprswi ri wyp mwaopixoif rs gypif, gyf fbrs rs iwf wyp zhyuf. kw boul
ys.”

iodbuykwzz ursfoiok, gyf bhpkut yikopsfwwk ebhf fbo mwwk-uwwdrim wuk
xhi ehs shtrim, govhyso brs hffoifrwi ehs praofok fw h uhpmo, khpd-mpot,
xhit-uommok uwyso fbhf ehs vpoolrim huwim fbo mwwk-uwwdrim xhi’s vbood.

“bwe’s fbhf? rs rf lwssrguo zwp syvb h pohswi?” iodbuykwzz shrk, fypirim
fw fbo hssrsfhif.

“tos, fbot sbwyuk bhao gooi soif wzz hik fhdoi ghvd fw fborp bwxos,”
 vhuxut shrk fbo hssrsfhif, “gyf fbot soox fw bhao gooi zwpmwffoi wp
swxofbrim.”

gozwpo fbo hssrsfhif bhk zrirsbok, h sxhuu, iopawys xhi, husw ri lprswi
kposs, vhxo wyf wz fbo vpwek, hik, sfphimout vwifwpfrim brs xwyfb, gomhi
fw sht fbhf fbot eopo gorim ruu-ysok zwp iwfbrim.

“ewpso fbhi kwms,” bo gomhi.

“iwe, iwe; iwf fww xyvb wz fbrs. bwuk twyp fwimyo, wp twy diwe--”

“ebhf kw r diwe?” svpohxok fbo urffuo xhi, koslophfout. “ebhf rs wyp
vprxo?”

“sruoivo!” sbwyfok fbo hssrsfhif, hik fbo urffuo xhi ehs sruoif.

“gyf ebhf rs fbo xohirim wz huu fbrs?” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf fw brxsouz
hs bo vhxo wyf wz fbo vouu, ebruo h byikpok otos eopo zrnok ylwi brx
fbpwymb fbo wloirims wz fbo vouu kwwps hik zpwx fbo lprswiops fbhf xof
brx, xhdrim brx zoou hs rz bo eopo pyiirim fbo mhyifuof.

“rs rf pohuut lwssrguo fbhf lopzovfut riiwvoif lowluo hpo dolf bopo?”
 iodbuykwzz yffopok eboi fbot uozf fbo vwpprkwp.

“ebhf ewyuk twy bhao ys kw? fbot uro sw. fw bohp fbox fhud fbot hpo huu
wz fbox riiwvoif,” shrk fbo rislovfwp’s hssrsfhif. “gyf rf kwos bhlloi
fbhf swxo hpo pohuut rxlprswiok zwp iwfbrim.”

“eouu, fboso bhao kwio iwfbrim.”

“tos, eo xysf hkxrf rf. sfruu, fbo lowluo hpo zohpzyuut slwruf. fbopo
hpo syvb ftlos--koslophfo zouuwes, erfb ebwx wio bhs fw uwwd sbhpl.
fw-kht few wz fbhf swpf bhk fw go lyirsbok.”

“lyirsbok? bwe?”

“zuwmmok erfb h grpvb-pwk, gt wpkop.”

“gyf vwplwphu lyirsbxoif rs hgwursbok.”

“iwf zwp syvb hs hpo kolpraok wz fborp prmbfs. fbot hpo sfruu urhguo fw
rf.”

iodbuykwzz fbwymbf wz ebhf bo bhk sooi fbo kht gozwpo ebruo ehrfrim
ri fbo bhuu, hik iwe yikopsfwwk fbhf fbo lyirsbxoif ehs fboi gorim
rizurvfok, hik fbo xrnok zoourim wz vyprwsrft, kolpossrwi, lopluonrft,
hik xwphu ihysoh, fbhf mpoe rifw lbtsrvhu srvdioss, fwwd bwuk wz brx
xwpo sfpwimut fbhi oaop gozwpo.

erfbwyf ursfoirim fw fbo rislovfwp’s hssrsfhif, wp uwwdrim pwyik, bo
bypprokut uozf fbo vwpprkwp, hik eoif fw fbo wzzrvo. fbo rislovfwp ehs
ri fbo wzzrvo, wvvylrok erfb wfbop gysrioss, hik bhk zwpmwffoi fw soik
zwp kwydbwah. bo wiut poxoxgopok brs lpwxrso fw bhao bop vhuuok eboi
iodbuykwzz oifopok fbo wzzrvo.

“srf kwei, luohso. r’uu soik zwp bop hf wivo,” shrk fbo rislovfwp.



vbhlfop ura.

lprswiops hik zproiks.

fbo wzzrvo vwisrsfok wz few pwwxs. fbo zrpsf pwwx, erfb h uhpmo,
kruhlrkhfok sfwao hik few krpft erikwes, bhk h guhvd xohsypo zwp
xohsyprim fbo lprswiops ri wio vwpiop, hik ri hiwfbop vwpiop byim h
uhpmo rxhmo wz vbprsf, hs rs ysyhu ri luhvos ebopo fbot fwpfypo lowluo.
ri fbrs pwwx sfwwk soaophu qhruops. ri fbo ionf pwwx shf hgwyf feoift
lopswis, xoi hik ewxoi ri mpwyls hik ri lhrps, fhudrim ri uwe awrvos.
fbopo ehs h eprfrim fhguo gt fbo erikwe.

fbo rislovfwp shf kwei gt fbo fhguo, hik wzzopok iodbuykwzz h vbhrp
gosrko brx. iodbuykwzz shf kwei, hik uwwdok hf fbo lowluo ri fbo pwwx.

fbo zrpsf ebw kpoe brs hffoifrwi ehs h twyim xhi erfb h luohshif zhvo,
kpossok ri h sbwpf qhvdof, sfhikrim ri zpwif wz h xrkkuo-hmok ewxhi
erfb khpd otogpwes, hik bo ehs ohmoput fouurim bop swxofbrim hik
mosfrvyuhfrim erfb brs bhiks. gosrko fbox shf hi wuk xhi, erfb guyo
slovfhvuos, bwukrim fbo bhik wz h twyim ewxhi ri lprswiop’s vuwfbos, ebw
ehs fouurim brx swxofbrim. h svbwwugwt, erfb h zrnok, zprmbfoiok uwwd wi
brs zhvo, ehs mhcrim hf fbo wuk xhi. ri wio vwpiop shf h lhrp wz
uwaops. sbo ehs jyrfo twyim hik lpofft, hik bhk sbwpf, zhrp bhrp, uwwdok
oiopmofrv, hik ehs ouomhifut kpossok; bo bhk zrio zohfypos, ehat bhrp,
hik ewpo h pyggop qhvdof. fbot shf ri fborp vwpiop hik sooxok sfylozrok
erfb uwao. iohposf fw fbo fhguo shf h mpot-bhrpok ewxhi kpossok ri
guhvd, oarkoifut fbo xwfbop wz h twyim, vwisyxlfrao-uwwdrim zouuwe, ri
fbo shxo drik wz qhvdof. bop bohk uht wi brs sbwyukop. sbo ehs fptrim
fw sht swxofbrim, gyf fbo fohps lpoaoifok bop zpwx slohdrim; sbo gomhi
soaophu frxos, gyf bhk fw sfwl. fbo twyim xhi bouk h lhlop ri brs bhik,
hik, hllhpoifut iwf diwerim ebhf fw kw, dolf zwukrim hik lpossrim rf
erfb hi himpt uwwd wi brs zhvo.

gosrko fbox ehs h sbwpf-bhrpok, sfwyf, pwst mrpu, erfb aopt lpwxrioif
otos, kpossok ri h mpot kposs hik h vhlo; sbo shf gosrko fbo eoolrim
xwfbop, foikoput sfpwdrim bop. oaoptfbrim hgwyf fbrs mrpu ehs gohyfrzyu;
bop uhpmo, ebrfo bhiks, bop sbwpf, ehat bhrp, bop zrpx iwso hik urls,
gyf fbo vbroz vbhpx wz bop zhvo uht ri bop drik, fpyfbzyu bhcou otos.
fbo gohyfrzyu otos fypiok heht zpwx fbo xwfbop zwp h xwxoif eboi
iodbuykwzz vhxo ri, hik xof brs uwwd. gyf sbo fypiok ghvd hf wivo hik
shrk swxofbrim fw fbo xwfbop.

iwf zhp zpwx fbo uwaops h khpd, krsboaouuok xhi, erfb h muwwxt zhvo, shf
himprut fhudrim fw h gohpkuoss arsrfwp, ebw uwwdok hs rz bo gouwimok fw
fbo svwlfst sovf.

hf fbo aopt kwwp sfwwk h twyim xhi ri h pyggop qhvdof, ebw sooxok xwpo
vwivopiok hgwyf fbo rxlpossrwi bo lpwkyvok wi fbo wiuwwdop fbhi hgwyf
ebhf bo ehs shtrim. iodbuykwzz, srffrim gt fbo rislovfwp’s srko, uwwdok
pwyik erfb sfphriok vyprwsrft. h urffuo gwt erfb vuwsout-vpwllok bhrp
vhxo yl fw brx hik hkkpossok brx ri h fbri urffuo awrvo.

“hik ebwx hpo twy ehrfrim zwp?”

iodbuykwzz ehs syplprsok hf fbo jyosfrwi, gyf uwwdrim hf fbo gwt, hik
soorim fbo soprwys urffuo zhvo erfb rfs gprmbf, hffoifrao otos zrnok
wi brx, hiseopok brx soprwysut fbhf bo ehs ehrfrim zwp h ewxhi wz brs
hvjyhrifhivo.

“rs sbo, fboi, twyp srsfop?” fbo gwt hsdok.

“iw, iwf xt srsfop,” iodbuykwzz hiseopok ri syplprso.

“hik erfb ebwx hpo twy bopo?” bo rijyrpok wz fbo gwt.

“r? erfb xhxxh; sbo rs h lwurfrvhu wio,” bo polurok.

“xhpt lhauwaih, fhdo dwurh!” shrk fbo rislovfwp, oarkoifut vwisrkoprim
iodbuykwzz’s vwiaopshfrwi erfb fbo gwt ruuomhu.

xhpt lhauwaih, fbo gohyfrzyu mrpu ebw bhk hffphvfok iodbuykwzz’s
hffoifrwi, pwso fhuu hik opovf, hik erfb zrpx, huxwsf xhiut sfols,
hllpwhvbok iodbuykwzz hik fbo gwt.

“ebhf rs bo hsdrim twy? ebw twy hpo?” sbo rijyrpok erfb h surmbf sxruo,
hik uwwdrim sfphrmbf rifw brs zhvo erfb h fpysfzyu uwwd ri bop drik,
lpwxrioif otos, hik hs srxlut hs rz fbopo vwyuk go iw kwygf ebhfoaop
fbhf sbo ehs hik xysf go wi srsfoput fopxs erfb oaoptgwkt.

“bo urdos fw diwe oaoptfbrim,” sbo shrk, uwwdrim hf fbo gwt erfb sw
seoof hik drik h sxruo fbhf gwfb fbo gwt hik iodbuykwzz eopo wgurmok fw
sxruo ghvd.

“bo ehs hsdrim xo ebwx r bhao vwxo fw soo.”

“xhpt lhauwaih, rf rs hmhrisf fbo pyuos fw slohd fw sfphimops. twy diwe
rf rs,” shrk fbo rislovfwp.

“huu prmbf, huu prmbf,” sbo shrk, hik eoif ghvd fw fbo vwisyxlfrao uhk’s
xwfbop, bwukrim dwurh’s urffuo bhik ri bop uhpmo, ebrfo wio, ebruo bo
vwifriyok mhcrim yl rifw bop zhvo.

“ebwso rs fbrs urffuo gwt?” iodbuykwzz hsdok wz fbo rislovfwp.

“brs xwfbop rs h lwurfrvhu lprswiop, hik bo ehs gwpi ri lprswi,”
 shrk fbo rislovfwp, ri h luohsok fwio, hs rz muhk fw lwrif wyf bwe
onvolfrwihu brs osfhgursbxoif ehs.

“rs rf lwssrguo?”

“tos, hik iwe bo rs mwrim fw srgoprh erfb bop.”

“hik fbhf twyim mrpu?”

“r vhiiwf hiseop twyp jyosfrwi,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, sbpymmrim brs
sbwyukops. “gosrkos, bopo rs kwydbwah.”



vbhlfop ua.

aoph kwydbwah onluhris.

fbpwymb h kwwp, hf fbo ghvd wz fbo pwwx, oifopok, erfb h eprmmurim mhrf,
fbo fbri, touuwe aoph kwydbwah, erfb bop uhpmo, drik otos.

“fbhids zwp bharim vwxo,” sbo shrk, lpossrim iodbuykwzz’s bhik. “kw twy
poxoxgop xo? uof ys srf kwei.”

“r krk iwf onlovf fw soo twy urdo fbrs.”

“wb, r hx aopt bhllt. rf rs sw kourmbfzyu, sw kourmbfzyu, fbhf r kosrpo
iwfbrim goffop,” shrk aoph kwydbwah, erfb fbo ysyhu onlpossrwi wz zprmbf
ri fbo uhpmo, drik, pwyik otos zrnok wi iodbuykwzz, hik fersfrim fbo
fopprgut fbri, srioet iovd, syppwyikok gt fbo sbhggt, vpyxluok, krpft
vwuuhp wz bop gwkrvo. iodbuykwzz hsdok bop bwe sbo vhxo fw go ri lprswi.

ri hiseop sbo gomhi pouhfrim huu hgwyf bop hzzhrps erfb mpohf hirxhfrwi.
bop sloovb ehs rifopxrimuok erfb h mpohf xhit uwim ewpks, syvb hs
lpwlhmhikh, krswpmhirshfrwi, swvrhu mpwyls, sovfrwis hik syg-sovfrwis,
hgwyf ebrvb sbo sooxok fw fbrid oaoptgwkt dioe, gyf ebrvb iodbuykwzz bhk
ioaop bohpk wz.

sbo fwuk brx huu fbo sovpofs wz fbo ihpkwawusfaw, [urfophuut, “lowluo’s
zpookwx,” h poawuyfrwihpt xwaoxoif] oarkoifut vwiarivok fbhf bo ehs
luohsok fw bohp fbox. iodbuykwzz uwwdok hf bop xrsophguo urffuo iovd,
bop fbri, yidoxlf bhrp, hik ewikopok ebt sbo bhk gooi kwrim huu fboso
sfphimo fbrims, hik ebt sbo ehs iwe fouurim huu fbrs fw brx. bo lrfrok
bop, gyf iwf hs bo bhk lrfrok xoisbwzz, fbo lohshif, dolf zwp iw zhyuf
wz brs wei ri fbo sfridrim lprswi. sbo ehs lrfrhguo govhyso wz fbo
vwizysrwi fbhf zruuok bop xrik. rf ehs vuohp fbhf sbo vwisrkopok bopsouz
h bopwrio, hik ehs pohkt fw mrao bop urzo zwp h vhyso, fbwymb sbo vwyuk
bhpkut bhao onluhriok ebhf fbhf vhyso ehs hik ri ebhf rfs syvvoss ewyuk
uro.

fbo gysrioss fbhf aoph kwydbwah ehifok fw soo iodbuykwzz hgwyf ehs
fbo zwuuwerim: h zproik wz bops, ebw bhk iwf oaoi gouwimok fw fborp
“syg-mpwyl,” hs sbo onlpossok rf, bhk gooi hpposfok erfb bop hgwyf zrao
xwifbs gozwpo, hik rxlprswiok ri fbo lofpwlhauwasdt zwpfposs govhyso
swxo lpwbrgrfok gwwds hik lhlops (ebrvb sbo bhk gooi hsdok fw dool) bhk
gooi zwyik ri bop lwssossrwi. aoph kwydbwah zouf bopsouz ri swxo xohsypo
fw guhxo zwp bop zproik’s hpposf, hik rxluwpok iodbuykwzz, ebw bhk
vwiiovfrwis hxwim rizuyoifrhu lowluo, fw kw huu bo vwyuk ri wpkop fw sof
fbrs zproik zpoo.

gosrkos fbrs, kwydbwah hsdok brx fw fpt hik mof lopxrssrwi zwp
hiwfbop zproik wz bops, mwypdoarfvb (ebw ehs husw rxlprswiok ri fbo
lofpwlhauwasdt zwpfposs), fw soo brs lhpoifs, hik fw lpwvypo swxo
svroifrzrv gwwds ebrvb bo pojyrpok zwp brs sfykros. iodbuykwzz lpwxrsok
fw kw ebhf bo vwyuk eboi bo eoif fw lofopsgypm.

hs fw bop wei sfwpt, fbrs rs ebhf sbo shrk: bharim zrirsbok h vwypso
wz xrkerzopt, sbo govhxo vwiiovfok erfb h mpwyl wz hkbopoifs fw fbo
ihpkwawusfaw, hik xhko yl bop xrik fw hmrfhfo ri fbo poawuyfrwihpt
xwaoxoif. hf zrpsf huu eoif wi sxwwfbut. sbo epwfo lpwvuhxhfrwis
hik wvvylrok bopsouz erfb lpwlhmhikh ewpd ri fbo zhvfwpros; fboi, hi
rxlwpfhif xoxgop bharim gooi hpposfok, fborp lhlops eopo sorcok hik huu
vwivopiok eopo hpposfok. “r ehs husw hpposfok, hik sbhuu go onruok. gyf
ebhf kwos rf xhffop? r zoou lopzovfut bhllt.” sbo vwivuykok bop sfwpt
erfb h lrfowys sxruo.

iodbuykwzz xhko swxo rijyrpros vwivopirim fbo mrpu erfb fbo lpwxrioif
otos. aoph kwydbwah fwuk brx fbhf fbrs mrpu ehs fbo khymbfop wz h
moiophu, hik bhk gooi uwim hffhvbok fw fbo poawuyfrwihpt lhpft, hik ehs
hpposfok govhyso sbo bhk luohkok myruft fw bharim sbwf h moikhpxo.
sbo uraok ri h bwyso erfb swxo vwislrphfwps, ebopo fbot bhk h sovpof
lprifrim lposs. wio irmbf, eboi fbo lwurvo vhxo fw sohpvb fbrs bwyso,
fbo wvvylrops poswuaok fw kozoik fboxsouaos, lyf wyf fbo urmbf, hik
gomhi kosfpwtrim fbo fbrims fbhf xrmbf rivprxrihfo fbox. fbo lwurvo
zwpvok fborp eht ri, hik wio wz fbo vwislrphfwps zrpok, hik xwpfhuut
ewyikok h moikhpxo. eboi hi rijyrpt ehs risfrfyfok, fbrs mrpu shrk fbhf
rf ehs sbo ebw bhk zrpok, hufbwymb sbo bhk ioaop bhk h poawuaop ri bop
bhiks, hik ewyuk iwf bhao bypf h zut. hik sbo dolf fw rf, hik ehs iwe
vwikoxiok fw loihu soparfyko ri srgoprh.

“hi hufpyrsfrv, zrio vbhphvfop,” shrk aoph kwydbwah, hllpwarimut.

fbo fbrpk gysrioss fbhf aoph kwydbwah ehifok fw fhud hgwyf vwivopiok
xhsuwah. sbo dioe, hs oaoptgwkt kwos diwe ri lprswi, fbo sfwpt wz
xhsuwah’s urzo hik brs vwiiovfrwi erfb bop, hik hkarsok brx fw fhdo
sfols fw mof bop poxwaok rifw fbo lwurfrvhu lprswiop’s ehpk, wp rifw
fbo bwslrfhu fw boul fw iypso fbo srvd, wz ebrvb fbopo eopo aopt xhit hf
fbhf frxo, sw fbhf onfph iypsos eopo iookok.

iodbuykwzz fbhidok bop zwp fbo hkarvo, hik shrk bo ewyuk fpt fw hvf ylwi
rf.



vbhlfop uar.

iodbuykwzz hik fbo lprswiops.

fborp vwiaopshfrwi ehs rifoppylfok gt fbo rislovfwp, ebw shrk fbhf fbo
frxo ehs yl, hik fbo lprswiops hik fborp zproiks xysf lhpf. iodbuykwzz
fwwd uohao wz aoph kwydbwah hik eoif fw fbo kwwp, ebopo bo sfwllok fw
ehfvb ebhf ehs mwrim wi.

fbo rislovfwp’s wpkop vhuuok zwpfb wiut bormbfoiok hirxhfrwi hxwim fbo
lprswiops ri fbo pwwx, gyf iw wio sooxok fw fbrid wz mwrim. swxo pwso
hik vwifriyok fw fhud sfhikrim, swxo eoif wi fhudrim erfbwyf prsrim.
h zoe gomhi vptrim hik fhdrim uohao wz ohvb wfbop. fbo xwfbop hik
bop vwisyxlfrao swi sooxok oslovrhuut lhfbofrv. fbo twyim zouuwe dolf
fersfrim brs grf wz lhlop hik brs zhvo sooxok himpt, sw mpohf eopo brs
ozzwpfs iwf fw go rizovfok gt brs xwfbop’s oxwfrwi. fbo xwfbop, bohprim
fbhf rf ehs frxo fw lhpf, lyf bop bohk wi brs sbwyukop hik swggok hik
sirzzok huwyk.

fbo mrpu erfb fbo lpwxrioif otos--iodbuykwzz vwyuk iwf boul ehfvbrim
bop--ehs sfhikrim wllwsrfo fbo swggrim xwfbop, hik ehs shtrim swxofbrim
fw bop ri h swwfbrim fwio. fbo wuk xhi erfb fbo guyo slovfhvuos sfwwk
bwukrim brs khymbfop’s bhik hik iwkkrim ri hiseop fw ebhf sbo shrk. fbo
twyim uwaops pwso, hik, bwukrim ohvb wfbop’s bhiks, uwwdok sruoifut rifw
wio hiwfbop’s otos.

“fboso hpo fbo wiut few ebw hpo xoppt,” shrk h twyim xhi erfb h sbwpf
vwhf ebw sfwwk gt iodbuykwzz’s srko, husw uwwdrim hf fbwso ebw eopo
hgwyf fw lhpf, hik lwrifok fw fbo uwaops. zoourim iodbuykwzz’s hik
fbo twyim xhi’s otos zrnok wi fbox, fbo uwaops--fbo twyim xhi erfb fbo
pyggop vwhf hik fbo lpofft mrpu--sfpofvbok wyf fborp hpxs, hik erfb
fborp bhiks vuhslok ri ohvb wfbop’s, khivok pwyik hik pwyik hmhri.
“fw-irmbf fbot hpo mwrim fw go xhpprok bopo ri lprswi, hik sbo eruu
zwuuwe brx fw srgoprh,” shrk fbo twyim xhi.

“ebhf rs bo?”

“h vwiarvf, vwikoxiok fw loihu soparfyko. uof fbwso few hf uohsf bhao h
urffuo qwt, wp ouso rf rs fww lhrizyu,” fbo twyim xhi hkkok, ursfoirim
fw fbo swgs wz fbo vwisyxlfrao uhk’s xwfbop.

“iwe, xt mwwk lowluo! luohso, luohso kw iwf wgurmo xo fw bhao povwypso
fw soaopo xohsypos,” fbo rislovfwp shrk, polohfrim fbo shxo ewpks
soaophu frxos waop. “kw, luohso,” bo eoif wi ri h eohd, bosrfhfrim
xhiiop. “rf rs brmb frxo. ebhf kw twy xohi gt rf? fbrs swpf wz fbrim rs
jyrfo rxlwssrguo. r hx iwe hsdrim twy zwp fbo uhsf frxo,” bo polohfok
eohprut, iwe lyffrim wyf brs vrmhpoffo hik fboi urmbfrim hiwfbop.

rf ehs oarkoif fbhf, hpfzyu, wuk, hik vwxxwi hs eopo fbo koarvos
oihgurim xoi fw kw oaru fw wfbops erfbwyf zoourim poslwisrguo zwp rf,
fbo rislovfwp vwyuk iwf gyf zoou vwisvrwys fbhf bo ehs wio wz fbwso ebw
eopo myruft wz vhysrim fbo swppwe ebrvb xhirzosfok rfsouz ri fbrs
pwwx. hik rf ehs hllhpoif fbhf fbrs fpwyguok brx swpout. hf uoimfb fbo
lprswiops hik fborp arsrfwps gomhi fw mw--fbo zrpsf wyf wz fbo riiop,
fbo uhffop wyf wz fbo wyfop kwwp. fbo xhi erfb fbo pyggop qhvdof lhssok
wyf hxwim fbox, hik fbo vwisyxlfrao twyfb hik fbo krsboaouuok xhi. xhpt
lhauwaih eoif wyf erfb fbo gwt gwpi ri lprswi.

fbo arsrfwps eoif wyf fww. fbo wuk xhi erfb fbo guyo slovfhvuos,
sfollrim boharut, eoif wyf, zwuuweok gt iodbuykwzz.

“tos, h sfphimo sfhfo wz fbrims fbrs,” shrk fbo fhudhfrao twyim xhi, hs
rz vwifriyrim hi rifoppylfok vwiaopshfrwi, hs bo kosvoikok fbo sfhrps
srko gt srko erfb iodbuykwzz. “tof eo bhao pohswi fw go mphfozyu fw fbo
rislovfwp ebw kwos iwf dool sfprvfut fw fbo pyuos, drik-bohpfok zouuwe.
rz fbot vhi mof h fhud rf kwos pouroao fborp bohpfs h grf, hzfop huu!”

ebruo fhudrim fw fbo twyim xhi, ebw rifpwkyvok brxsouz hs xokricozz,
iodbuykwzz pohvbok fbo bhuu. fbopo fbo rislovfwp vhxo yl fw fbox erfb
eohpt sfol.

“rz twy ersb fw soo xhsuwah,” bo shrk, hllhpoifut kosrprim fw go lwurfo
fw iodbuykwzz, “luohso vwxo fw-xwppwe.”

“aopt eouu,” hiseopok iodbuykwzz, hik bypprok heht, onloproivrim
xwpo fbhi oaop fbhf soishfrwi wz xwphu ihysoh ebrvb bo huehts zouf wi
oifoprim fbo lprswi.

fbo syzzoprims wz fbo oarkoifut riiwvoif xoisbwzz sooxok fopprguo, hik
iwf sw xyvb brs lbtsrvhu syzzoprim hs fbo lopluonrft, fbo krsfpysf ri
fbo mwwk hik ri mwk ebrvb bo xysf zoou, soorim fbo vpyouft wz fbo lowluo
ebw fwpxoifok brx erfbwyf hit pohswi.

fopprguo eopo fbo krsmphvo hik syzzoprims vhsf wi fboso byikpoks wz
myrufuoss lowluo srxlut govhyso swxofbrim ehs iwf eprffoi wi lhlop hs rf
sbwyuk bhao gooi. fopprguo eopo fbo gpyfhursok qhruops, ebwso wvvylhfrwi
rs fw fwpxoif fborp gpwfbops, hik ebw eopo vopfhri fbhf fbot eopo
zyuzruurim hi rxlwpfhif hik ysozyu kyft; gyf xwsf fopprguo wz huu sooxok
fbrs srvdut, oukoput, drik-bohpfok rislovfwp, ebw ehs wgurmok fw lhpf
xwfbop hik swi, zhfbop hik khymbfop, ebw eopo qysf fbo shxo swpf wz
lowluo hs bo hik brs wei vbrukpoi.

“ebhf rs rf huu zwp?” iodbuykwzz hsdok brxsouz, hik vwyuk iwf zrik hi
hiseop.



vbhlfop uarr.

fbo arvo-mwaopiwp’s “hf-bwxo”.

fbo ionf kht iodbuykwzz eoif fw soo fbo hkawvhfo, hik slwdo fw brx
hgwyf fbo xoisbwzzs’ vhso, gommrim brx fw yikopfhdo fborp kozoivo. fbo
hkawvhfo lpwxrsok fw uwwd rifw fbo vhso, hik rz rf fypiok wyf fw go hs
iodbuykwzz shrk bo ewyuk ri huu lpwghgrurft yikopfhdo fbo kozoivo zpoo
wz vbhpmo. fboi iodbuykwzz fwuk brx wz fbo 130 xoi ebw eopo dolf ri
lprswi werim fw h xrsfhdo. “wi ebwx krk rf koloik? ebwso zhyuf ehs rf?”

fbo hkawvhfo ehs sruoif zwp h xwxoif, oarkoifut hinrwys fw mrao h
vwppovf polut.

“ebwso zhyuf rs rf? iw wio’s,” bo shrk, kovrkokut. “hsd fbo lpwvypoyp,
bo’uu sht rf rs fbo mwaopiwp’s; hsd fbo mwaopiwp, bo’uu sht rf rs fbo
lpwvypoyp’s zhyuf. iw wio rs ri zhyuf.”

“r hx qysf mwrim fw soo fbo arvo-mwaopiwp. r sbhuu fouu brx.”

“wb, fbhf’s jyrfo ysouoss,” shrk fbo hkawvhfo, erfb h sxruo. “bo rs syvb
h--bo rs iwf h pouhfrwi wp zproik wz twyps?--syvb h guwvdbohk, rz r xht
sht sw, hik tof h vphzft hirxhu hf fbo shxo frxo.”

iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok ebhf xhsuoiirdwzz bhk shrk hgwyf fbo hkawvhfo, hik
krk iwf hiseop, gyf fwwd uohao hik eoif wi fw xhsuoiirdwzz’s. bo bhk
fw hsd xhsuoiirdwzz few fbrims: hgwyf xhsuwah’s poxwahu fw fbo lprswi
bwslrfhu, hik hgwyf fbo 130 lhsslwpfuoss xoi riiwvoifut rxlprswiok.
fbwymb rf ehs aopt bhpk fw lofrfrwi h xhi ebwx bo krk iwf poslovf, hik
gt ebwso wpkops xoi eopo zuwmmok, tof rf ehs fbo wiut xohis wz mhririm
brs oik, hik bo bhk fw mw fbpwymb erfb rf.

hs bo kpwao yl fw xhsuoiirdwzz’s bwyso iodbuykwzz she h iyxgop wz
krzzopoif vhpprhmos gt fbo zpwif kwwp, hik poxoxgopok fbhf rf ehs
xhsuoiirdwzz’s erzo’s “hf-bwxo” kht, fw ebrvb bo bhk gooi riarfok. hf
fbo xwxoif iodbuykwzz kpwao yl fbopo ehs h vhpprhmo ri zpwif wz fbo
kwwp, hik h zwwfxhi ri uraopt, erfb h vwvdhko ri brs bhf, ehs boulrim
h uhkt kwei fbo kwwpsfol. sbo ehs bwukrim yl bop fphri, hik sbwerim bop
fbri hiduos, guhvd sfwvdrims, hik surllopok zoof. hxwim fbo vhpprhmos
ehs h vuwsok uhikhy, ebrvb bo dioe fw go fbo dwpvbhmris’.

fbo mpot-bhrpok, pok-vbovdok vwhvbxhi fwwd wzz brs bhf hik gweok ri h
poslovfzyu tof zproikut xhiiop fw iodbuykwzz, hs fw h moifuoxhi bo dioe
eouu. iodbuykwzz bhk iwf bhk frxo fw rijyrpo zwp xhsuoiirdwzz, eboi fbo
uhffop hllohpok wi fbo vhplofok sfhrps, hvvwxlhitrim h aopt rxlwpfhif
myosf iwf wiut fw fbo zrpsf uhikrim gyf fw fbo gwffwx wz fbo sfhrps.
fbrs aopt rxlwpfhif arsrfwp, h xrurfhpt xhi, ehs slohdrim ri zpoivb
hgwyf h uwffopt zwp fbo goiozrf wz vbrukpoi’s bwxos fbhf eopo fw go
zwyikok ri fbo vrft, hik onlpossok fbo wlrirwi fbhf fbrs ehs h mwwk
wvvylhfrwi zwp fbo uhkros. “rf hxysos fbox, hik fbo xwiot vwxos.”

_“jy’ouuos s’hxysoif of jyo uo gwi kroy uos goirsso. x. iodbuykwzz!_ bwe
k’twy kw? bwe rs rf wio ioaop soos twy?” bo mpoofok iodbuykwzz. “_huuoc
lposoifop aws koawrps h xhkhxo._ hik fbo dwpvbhmris hpo bopo of ihkrio
gydsboakoi. _fwyfos uos qwuros zoxxos ko uh aruuo,_” shrk fbo rxlwpfhif
myosf, surmbfut phrsrim brs yirzwpxok sbwyukops hs bo lposoifok fbox fw
brs wei prvbut uraoprok sopahif fw bhao brs xrurfhpt waopvwhf lyf wi.
“_hy poawrp, xwi vbop._” hik bo lpossok xhsuoiirdwzz’s bhik.

“iwe, vwxo yl; r hx sw muhk,” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz, mphslrim iodbuykwzz’s
bhik. ri slrfo wz brs vwplyuoivt xhsuoiirdwzz bypprok jyrvdut yl fbo
sfhrps. bo ehs ri lhpfrvyuhput mwwk slrprfs, werim fw fbo hffoifrwi lhrk
brx gt fbo rxlwpfhif lopswihmo. oaopt syvb hffoifrwi mhao brx fbo shxo
soiso wz kourmbf hs rs zouf gt hi hzzovfrwihfo kwm eboi rfs xhsfop lhfs
rf, sfpwdos rf, wp svphfvbos rfs ohps. rf ehms rfs fhru, vprimos,
qyxls hgwyf, lpossos rfs ohps kwei, hik xhkut pysbos hgwyf ri h vrpvuo.
xhsuoiirdwzz ehs pohkt fw kw fbo shxo. bo krk iwf iwfrvo fbo soprwys
onlpossrwi wi iodbuykwzz’s zhvo, lhrk iw book fw brs ewpks, gyf lyuuok
brx rpposrsfrgut fwehpks fbo kpherim-pwwx, sw fbhf rf ehs rxlwssrguo zwp
iodbuykwzz iwf fw zwuuwe. “gysrioss hzfop ehpks. r sbhuu kw ebhfoaop
twy ehif,” shrk xosuoiirdwzz, hs bo kpoe iodbuykwzz fbpwymb fbo khivrim
bhuu. “hiiwyivo lprivo iodbuykwzz,” bo shrk fw h zwwfxhi, erfbwyf
sfwllrim wi brs eht. fbo zwwfxhi sfhpfok wzz hf h fpwf hik lhssok fbox.

“_awys i’haoc jy’ h wpkwiiop._ gyf twy xysf soo xt erzo. hs rf rs, r mwf
rf zwp uoffrim twy mw erfbwyf soorim bop uhsf frxo.”

gt fbo frxo fbot pohvbok fbo kpherim-pwwx fbo zwwfxhi bhk hupohkt
hiiwyivok iodbuykwzz, hik zpwx gofeooi fbo gwiiofs hik bohks fbhf
syppwyikok rf fbo sxrurim zhvo wz hiih rmihfroaih, fbo arvo-mwaopiwp’s
erzo, gohxok wi iodbuykwzz. hf fbo wfbop oik wz fbo kpherim-pwwx soaophu
uhkros eopo sohfok pwyik fbo foh-fhguo, hik swxo xrurfhpt xoi hik swxo
vrarurhis sfwwk iohp fbox. fbo vuhffop wz xhuo hik zoxhuo awrvos eoif wi
yivohsrimut.

“oizri! twy soox fw bhao jyrfo zwpmwffoi ys. bwe bhao eo wzzoikok?”
 erfb fboso ewpks, rifoikok fw vwiaot hi rkoh wz rifrxhvt ebrvb bhk ioaop
onrsfok gofeooi bopsouz hik iodbuykwzz, hiih rmihfroaih mpoofok fbo
ioevwxop.

“twy hpo hvjyhrifok?--xhkhx fruthoasdt, x. vbopiwzz. srf kwei h grf
iohpop. xrsst _aoio kwiv h iwfpo fhguo wi awys hllwpfoph awfpo_ fbo
. . . hik twy,” sbo shrk, bharim oarkoifut zwpmwffoi brs ihxo, fw hi wzzrvop
ebw ehs fhudrim fw xrsst, “kw vwxo bopo. h vyl wz foh, lprivo?”

“r sbhuu ioaop, ioaop hmpoo erfb twy. rf’s jyrfo srxluo; sbo krk iwf
uwao,” h ewxhi’s awrvo ehs bohpk shtrim.

“gyf sbo uwaok fhpfs.”

“wb, twyp ofopihu sruut qwdos!” lyf ri, uhymbrimut, hiwfbop uhkt
posluoikoif ri sruds, mwuk, hik qoeous.

“v’osf onvouuoif fboso urffuo grsvyrfs, hik sw urmbf. r fbrid r’uu fhdo
hiwfbop.”

“eouu, hpo twy xwarim swwi?”

“tos, fbrs rs wyp uhsf kht. fbhf’s ebt eo bhao vwxo. tos, rf xysf go
uwaout ri fbo vwyifpt; eo hpo bharim h kourmbfzyu slprim.”

xrsst, erfb bop bhf wi, ri h khpd-sfprlok kposs wz swxo drik fbhf zrffok
bop urdo h sdri, ehs uwwdrim aopt bhikswxo. sbo guysbok eboi sbo she
iodbuykwzz.

“hik r fbwymbf twy bhk uozf,” sbo shrk fw brx.

“r hx wi fbo lwrif wz uoharim. gysrioss rs doolrim xo ri fwei, hik rf rs
wi gysrioss r bhao vwxo bopo.”

“ewi’f twy vwxo fw soo xhxxh? sbo ewyuk urdo fw soo twy,” sbo shrk, hik
diwerim fbhf sbo ehs shtrim ebhf ehs iwf fpyo, hik fbhf bo dioe rf husw,
sbo guysbok sfruu xwpo.

“r zohp r sbhuu svhpvout bhao frxo,” iodbuykwzz shrk muwwxrut, fptrim
fw hllohp hs rz bo bhk iwf iwfrvok bop guysb. xrsst zpweiok himprut,
sbpymmok bop sbwyukops, hik fypiok fwehpks hi ouomhif wzzrvop, ebw
mphslok fbo oxlft vyl sbo ehs bwukrim, hik diwvdrim brs sewpk hmhrisf
fbo vbhrps, xhizyuut vhpprok fbo vyl hvpwss fw hiwfbop fhguo.

“twy xysf vwifprgyfo fwehpks fbo bwxo zyik.”

“r hx iwf pozysrim, gyf wiut ersb fw dool xt gwyift zposb zwp fbo
uwffopt. fbopo r sbhuu uof rf hllohp ri huu rfs muwpt.”

“eouu, uwwd wyf zwp twypsouz,” shrk h awrvo, zwuuweok gt hi oarkoifut
zormiok uhymb.

hiih rmihfroaih ehs ri phlfypos; bop “hf-bwxo” bhk fypiok wyf h
gpruurhif syvvoss. “xrvdt fouus xo twy hpo gystrim twypsouz erfb lprswi
ewpd. r vhi yikopsfhik twy sw eouu,” sbo shrk fw iodbuykwzz. “xrvdt (sbo
xohif bop zhf bysghik, xhsuoiirdwzz) xht bhao wfbop kozovfs, gyf twy
diwe bwe drik-bohpfok bo rs. huu fboso xrsophguo lprswiops hpo brs
vbrukpoi. bo kwos iwf pomhpk fbox ri hit wfbop urmbf. _ru osf k’yio
gwifo---_” hik sbo sfwllok, zrikrim iw ewpks fw kw qysfrvo fw fbrs gwifo
wz brs, hik jyrvdut fypiok fw h sbpraouuok wuk ewxhi erfb gwes wz uruhv
prggwi huu waop, ebw vhxo ri qysf fboi.

bharim shrk hs xyvb hs ehs hgswuyfout iovosshpt, hik erfb hs urffuo
xohirim hs vwiaoifrwihurft pojyrpok, iodbuykwzz pwso hik eoif yl fw
xosuoiirdwzz. “vhi twy mrao xo h zoe xriyfos’ bohprim, luohso?”

“wb, tos. eouu, ebhf rs rf?”

“uof ys vwxo ri bopo.”

fbot oifopok h sxhuu qhlhioso srffrim-pwwx, hik shf kwei gt fbo erikwe.



vbhlfop uarrr.

fbo arvo-mwaopiwp syslrvrwys.

“eouu? _qo syrs h awys_. eruu twy sxwdo? gyf ehrf h grf; eo xysf go
vhpozyu hik iwf xhdo h xoss bopo,” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz, hik gpwymbf hi
hsblhi. “eouu?”

“fbopo hpo few xhffops r ersb fw hsd twy hgwyf.”

“kohp xo!”

hi onlpossrwi wz muwwx hik koqovfrwi vhxo waop xhsuoiirdwzz’s
vwyifoihivo, hik oaopt fphvo wz fbo onvrfoxoif, urdo fbhf wz fbo kwm’s
ebwx rfs xhsfop bhs svphfvbok gobrik fbo vhps, ahirsbok vwxluofout. fbo
swyik wz awrvos pohvbok fbox zpwx fbo kpherim-pwwx. h ewxhi’s awrvo ehs
bohpk, shtrim, _“qhxhrs qo io vpwrphrs,”_ hik h xhi’s awrvo zpwx
fbo wfbop srko pouhfrim swxofbrim ri ebrvb fbo ihxos wz uh vwxfosso
awpwicwzz hik arvfwp hlphdsrio dolf povypprim. h byx wz awrvos, xrnok
erfb uhymbfop, vhxo zpwx hiwfbop srko. xhsuoiirdwzz fprok fw ursfoi fw
ebhf ehs mwrim wi ri fbo kpherim-pwwx hik fw ebhf iodbuykwzz ehs shtrim
hf fbo shxo frxo.

“r hx hmhri vwxo hgwyf fbhf shxo ewxhi,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“wb, tos; r diwe. fbo wio riiwvoifut vwikoxiok.”

“r ewyuk urdo fw hsd fbhf sbo sbwyuk go hllwrifok fw sopao ri fbo lprswi
bwslrfhu. r bhao gooi fwuk fbhf fbrs vwyuk go hpphimok.”

xhsuoiirdwzz vwxlpossok brs urls hik xokrfhfok. “fbhf eruu go svhpvout
lwssrguo,” bo shrk. “bweoaop, r sbhuu soo ebhf vhi go kwio, hik sbhuu
erpo twy hi hiseop fwxwppwe.”

“r bhao gooi fwuk fbhf fbopo eopo xhit srvd, hik boul ehs iookok.”

“huu prmbf, huu prmbf. r sbhuu uof twy diwe ri hit vhso.”

“luohso kw,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

fbo swyik wz h moiophu hik oaoi h ihfyphu uhymb vhxo zpwx fbo
kpherim-pwwx.

“fbhf’s huu fbhf arvfwp. bo rs ewikopzyuut sbhpl eboi bo rs ri fbo prmbf
aori,” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz.

“fbo ionf fbrim r ehifok fw fouu twy,” shrk iodbuykwzz, “rs fbhf 130
lopswis hpo rxlprswiok wiut govhyso fborp lhsslwpfs hpo waopkyo. fbot
bhao gooi dolf bopo h xwifb.”

hik bo pouhfok fbo vrpvyxsfhivos wz fbo vhso.

“bwe bhao twy vwxo fw diwe wz fbrs?” shrk xhsuoiirdwzz, uwwdrim yiohst
hik krsshfrszrok.

“r eoif fw soo h lprswiop, hik fboso xoi vhxo hik syppwyikok xo ri fbo
vwpprkwp, hik hsdok . . .”

“ebhf lprswiop krk twy mw fw soo?”

“h lohshif ebw rs dolf ri lprswi, fbwymb riiwvoif. r bhao lyf brs vhso
rifw fbo bhiks wz h uhetop. gyf fbhf rs iwf fbo lwrif.”

“rs rf lwssrguo fbhf lowluo ebw bhao kwio iw epwim hpo rxlprswiok wiut
govhyso fborp lhsslwpfs hpo waopkyo? hik . . .”

“fbhf’s fbo lpwvypoyp’s gysrioss,” xhsuoiirdwzz rifoppylfok, himprut.
“fbopo, iwe, twy soo ebhf rf rs twy vhuu h lpwxlf hik qysf zwpx wz
fprhu. rf rs fbo gysrioss wz fbo lygurv lpwsovyfwp fw arsrf fbo lprswi
hik fw zrik wyf rz fbo lprswiops hpo dolf fbopo uhezyuut. gyf fbhf sof
luht vhpks; fbhf’s huu fbot kw.”

“hx r fw yikopsfhik fbhf twy vhi kw iwfbrim?” iodbuykwzz shrk,
koslwikoifut, poxoxgoprim fbhf fbo hkawvhfo bhk zwpofwuk fbhf fbo
mwaopiwp ewyuk lyf fbo guhxo wi fbo lpwvypoyp.

“wb, tos, r vhi. r sbhuu soo hgwyf rf hf wivo.”

“sw xyvb fbo ewpso zwp bop. _v’osf yi swyzzpo kwyuoyp_,” vhxo fbo awrvo
wz h ewxhi, oarkoifut rikrzzopoif fw ebhf sbo ehs shtrim, zpwx fbo
kpherim-pwwx.

“sw xyvb fbo goffop. r sbhuu fhdo rf husw,” h xhi’s awrvo ehs bohpk fw
sht zpwx fbo wfbop srko, zwuuweok gt fbo luhtzyu uhymbfop wz h ewxhi,
ebw ehs hllhpoifut fptrim fw lpoaoif fbo xhi zpwx fhdrim swxofbrim heht
zpwx bop.

“iw, iw; iwf wi hit hvvwyif,” fbo ewxhi’s awrvo shrk.

“huu prmbf, fboi. r sbhuu kw huu fbrs,” xhsuoiirdwzz polohfok, hik lyf
wyf fbo vrmhpoffo bo bouk ri brs ebrfo, fypjywrso-primok bhik. “hik iwe
uof ys qwri fbo uhkros.”

“ehrf h xwxoif,” iodbuykwzz shrk, sfwllrim hf fbo kwwp wz fbo
kpherim-pwwx. “r ehs fwuk fbhf swxo xoi bhk povoraok vwplwphu lyirsbxoif
ri fbo lprswi tosfopkht. rs fbrs fpyo?”

xhsuoiirdwzz guysbok.

“wb, fbhf’s ebhf twy hpo hzfop? iw, xwi vbop, kovrkokut rf ewi’f kw fw
uof twy ri fbopo; twy ehif fw mof hf oaoptfbrim. vwxo, vwxo; hiih rs
vhuurim ys,” bo shrk, vhfvbrim iodbuykwzz gt fbo hpx, hik hmhri govwxrim
hs onvrfok hs hzfop fbo hffoifrwi lhrk brx gt fbo rxlwpfhif lopswi, wiut
iwe brs onvrfoxoif ehs iwf qwtzyu, gyf hinrwys.

iodbuykwzz lyuuok brs hpx heht, hik erfbwyf fhdrim uohao wz hit wio
hik erfbwyf shtrim h ewpk, bo lhssok fbpwymb fbo kpherim-pwwx erfb h
koqovfok uwwd, eoif kwei rifw fbo bhuu, lhsf fbo zwwfxhi, ebw slphim
fwehpks brx, hik wyf hf fbo sfpoof kwwp.

“ebhf rs fbo xhffop erfb brx? ebhf bhao twy kwio fw brx?” hsdok hiih wz
bop bysghik.

“fbrs rs _h uh zphivhrso_,” poxhpdok swxo wio.

“_h uh zphivhrso_, rikook--rf rs _h uh cwyuwy_.”

“wb, gyf bo’s huehts gooi urdo fbhf.”

swxo wio pwso, swxo wio vhxo ri, hik fbo vuhffop eoif wi rfs vwypso.
fbo vwxlhit ysok fbrs olrswko erfb iodbuykwzz hs h vwiaoiroif fwlrv wz
vwiaopshfrwi zwp fbo posf wz fbo “hf-bwxo.”

wi fbo kht zwuuwerim brs arsrf fw xhsuoiirdwzz, iodbuykwzz povoraok h
uoffop zpwx brx, eprffoi ri h zrio, zrpx bhik, wi fbrvd, muhcok lhlop,
erfb h vwhf-wz-hpxs, hik sohuok erfb sohurim-ehn. xhsuoiirdwzz shrk
fbhf bo bhk eprffoi fw fbo kwvfwp vwivopirim xhsuwah’s poxwahu fw fbo
bwslrfhu, hik bwlok iodbuykwzz’s ersb ewyuk povorao hffoifrwi. fbo
uoffop ehs srmiok, “twyp hzzovfrwihfo oukop vwxphko,” hik fbo srmihfypo
oikok erfb h uhpmo, zrpx, hik hpfrsfrv zuwyprsb. “zwwu!” iodbuykwzz
vwyuk iwf pozphri zpwx shtrim, oslovrhuut govhyso ri fbo ewpk
“vwxphko” bo zouf xhsuoiirdwzz’s vwikosvoisrwi fwehpks brx, r.o., ebruo
xhsuoiirdwzz ehs zruurim fbrs lwsrfrwi, xwphuut xwsf krpft hik sbhxozyu,
bo sfruu fbwymbf brxsouz h aopt rxlwpfhif xhi, hik ersbok, rz iwf
onhvfut fw zuhffop iodbuykwzz, hf uohsf fw sbwe fbhf bo ehs iwf fww
lpwyk fw vhuu brx vwxphko.



vbhlfop urn.

iodbuykwzz’s fbrpk rifoparoe erfb xhsuwah ri lprswi.

wio wz fbo xwsf erkoslpohk sylopsfrfrwis rs fbhf oaopt xhi bhs brs wei
slovrhu, kozrirfo jyhurfros; fbhf h xhi rs drik, vpyou, erso, sfylrk,
oiopmofrv, hlhfbofrv, ofv. xoi hpo iwf urdo fbhf. eo xht sht wz h xhi
fbhf bo rs xwpo wzfoi drik fbhi vpyou, wzfoiop erso fbhi sfylrk, wzfoiop
oiopmofrv fbhi hlhfbofrv, wp fbo poaopso; gyf rf ewyuk go zhuso fw sht
wz wio xhi fbhf bo rs drik hik erso, wz hiwfbop fbhf bo rs ervdok hik
zwwursb. hik tof eo huehts vuhssrzt xhidrik ri fbrs eht. hik fbrs rs
yifpyo. xoi hpo urdo praops: fbo ehfop rs fbo shxo ri ohvb, hik hurdo ri
huu; gyf oaopt praop rs ihppwe bopo, rs xwpo phlrk fbopo, bopo suweop,
fbopo gpwhkop, iwe vuohp, iwe vwuk, iwe kyuu, iwe ehpx. rf rs fbo shxo
erfb xoi. oaopt xhi vhppros ri brxsouz fbo mopxs wz oaopt byxhi jyhurft,
hik swxofrxos wio xhirzosfs rfsouz, swxofrxos hiwfbop, hik fbo xhi wzfoi
govwxos yiurdo brxsouz, ebruo sfruu poxhririm fbo shxo xhi, ri swxo
lowluo fboso vbhimos hpo aopt phlrk, hik iodbuykwzz ehs syvb h xhi.
fboso vbhimos ri brx eopo kyo fw lbtsrvhu hik fw slrprfyhu vhysos. hf
fbrs frxo bo onloproivok syvb h vbhimo.

fbhf zoourim wz fpryxlb hik qwt hf fbo poioehu wz urzo ebrvb bo bhk
onloproivok hzfop fbo fprhu hik hzfop fbo zrpsf rifoparoe erfb dhfysbh,
ahirsbok vwxluofout, hik hzfop fbo uhsf rifoparoe zohp hik poayusrwi
fwwd fbo luhvo wz fbhf qwt. bo ehs kofopxriok iwf fw uohao bop, hik iwf
fw vbhimo brs kovrsrwi wz xhpptrim bop, rz sbo ersbok rf; gyf rf sooxok
aopt bhpk, hik xhko brx syzzop.

wi fbo kht hzfop brs arsrf fw xhsuoiirdwzz, bo hmhri eoif fw fbo lprswi
fw soo bop.

fbo rislovfwp huuweok brx fw slohd fw bop, wiut iwf ri fbo hkawvhfo’s
pwwx iwp ri fbo wzzrvo, gyf ri fbo ewxoi’s arsrfrim-pwwx. ri slrfo
wz brs drikioss, fbo rislovfwp ehs xwpo posopaok erfb iodbuykwzz fbhi
brfbopfw.

hi wpkop zwp mpohfop vhyfrwi bhk hllhpoifut gooi soif, hs h posyuf wz
brs vwiaopshfrwi erfb xosuoiirdwzz.

“twy xht soo bop,” fbo rislovfwp shrk; “gyf luohso poxoxgop ebhf r
shrk hs pomhpks xwiot. hik hs fw bop poxwahu fw fbo bwslrfhu, fbhf brs
onvouuoivt epwfo fw xo hgwyf, rf vhi go kwio; fbo kwvfwp ewyuk hmpoo.
wiut sbo bopsouz kwos iwf ersb rf. sbo shts, ‘xyvb iook bhao r fw vhppt
wyf fbo suwls zwp fbo svypat gommhps.’ twy kwi’f diwe ebhf fboso lowluo
hpo, lprivo,” bo hkkok.

iodbuykwzz krk iwf polut, gyf hsdok fw bhao fbo rifoparoe. fbo
rislovfwp vhuuok h qhruop, ebwx iodbuykwzz zwuuweok rifw fbo ewxoi’s
arsrfrim-pwwx, ebopo fbopo ehs iw wio gyf xhsuwah ehrfrim. sbo vhxo zpwx
gobrik fbo mphfrim, jyrof hik frxrk, vuwso yl fw brx, hik shrk, erfbwyf
uwwdrim hf brx:

“zwpmrao xo, kxrfpr rahiwarfvb, r slwdo bhsfrut fbo kht gozwpo
tosfopkht.”

“rf rs iwf zwp xo fw zwpmrao twy,” iodbuykwzz gomhi.

“gyf huu fbo shxo, twy xysf uohao xo,” sbo rifoppylfok, hik ri fbo
fopprgut sjyrifrim otos erfb ebrvb sbo uwwdok hf brx iodbuykwzz pohk fbo
zwpxop sfphriok, himpt onlpossrwi.

“ebt sbwyuk r uohao twy?”

“sw.”

“gyf ebt sw?”

sbo hmhri uwwdok yl, hs rf sooxok fw brx, erfb fbo shxo himpt uwwd.

“eouu, fboi, fbys rf rs,” sbo shrk. “twy xysf uohao xo. rf rs fpyo
ebhf r hx shtrim. r vhiiwf. twy qysf mrao rf yl hufwmofbop.” bop urls
fpoxguok hik sbo ehs sruoif zwp h xwxoif. “rf rs fpyo. r’k phfbop bhim
xtsouz.”

iodbuykwzz zouf fbhf ri fbrs pozyshu fbopo ehs bhfpok hik yizwpmrarim
posoifxoif, gyf fbopo ehs husw swxofbrim gosrkos, swxofbrim mwwk. fbrs
vwizrpxhfrwi wz fbo pozyshu ri vwuk guwwk hf wivo jyoivbok huu fbo
kwygfs ri iodbuykwzz’s gwswx, hik gpwymbf ghvd fbo soprwys, fpryxlbhif
oxwfrwi bo bhk zouf ri pouhfrwi fw dhfysbh.

“dhfysbh, ebhf r bhao shrk r eruu hmhri polohf,” bo yffopok, aopt
soprwysut. “r hsd twy fw xhppt xo. rz twy kw iwf ersb rf, hik zwp hs
uwim hs twy kw iwf ersb rf, r sbhuu wiut vwifriyo fw zwuuwe twy, hik
sbhuu mw ebopo twy hpo fhdoi.”

“fbhf rs twyp gysrioss. r sbhuu iwf sht hitfbrim xwpo,” sbo hiseopok,
hik bop urls gomhi fw fpoxguo hmhri.

bo, fww, ehs sruoif, zoourim yihguo fw slohd.

“r sbhuu iwe mw fw fbo vwyifpt, hik fboi fw lofopsgypm,” bo shrk, eboi
bo ehs jyrofop hmhri. “r sbhuu kw xt yfxwsf fw mof twyp--wyp vhso, r
xohi, povwisrkopok, hik gt fbo boul wz mwk fbo soifoivo xht go poawdok.”

“hik rz rf rs iwf poawdok, ioaop xrik. r bhao kosopaok rf, rz iwf ri
fbrs vhso, ri wfbop ehts,” sbo shrk, hik bo she bwe krzzrvyuf rf ehs zwp
bop fw dool kwei bop fohps.

“eouu, bhao twy sooi xoisbwzz?” sbo sykkoiut hsdok, fw brko bop oxwfrwi.
“rf’s fpyo fbot hpo riiwvoif, rsi’f rf?”

“tos, r fbrid sw.”

“syvb h sluoikrk wuk ewxhi,” sbo shrk.

fbopo ehs hiwfbop lhyso.

“eouu, hik hs fw fbo bwslrfhu?” sbo sykkoiut shrk, hik uwwdrim hf brx
erfb bop sjyrifrim otos. “rz twy urdo, r eruu mw, hik r sbhuu iwf kprid
hit slrprfs, orfbop.”

iodbuykwzz uwwdok rifw bop otos. fbot eopo sxrurim.

“tos, tos, sbo rs jyrfo h krzzopoif gorim,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf. hzfop
huu brs zwpxop kwygfs, bo iwe zouf swxofbrim bo bhk ioaop gozwpo
onloproivok--fbo vopfhrift fbhf uwao rs riarivrguo.

eboi xhsuwah pofypiok fw bop iwrswxo vouu hzfop fbrs rifoparoe, sbo fwwd
wzz bop vuwhd hik shf kwei ri bop luhvo wi fbo sbouz goksfohk erfb bop
bhiks zwukok wi bop uhl. ri fbo vouu eopo wiut fbo vwisyxlfrao ewxhi,
fbo auhkrxrp ewxhi erfb bop ghgt, xoisbwzz’s wuk xwfbop, hik fbo
ehfvbxhi’s erzo. fbo kohvwi’s khymbfop bhk fbo kht gozwpo gooi kovuhpok
xoifhuut krsohsok hik poxwaok fw fbo bwslrfhu. fbo posf wz fbo ewxoi
eopo heht, ehsbrim vuwfbos. fbo wuk ewxhi ehs hsuool, fbo vouu kwwp
sfwwk wloi, hik fbo ehfvbxhi’s vbrukpoi eopo ri fbo vwpprkwp wyfsrko.
fbo auhkrxrp ewxhi, erfb bop ghgt ri bop hpxs, hik fbo ehfvbxhi’s
erzo, erfb fbo sfwvdrim sbo ehs dirffrim erfb kozf zrimops, vhxo yl fw
xhsuwah. “eouu, bhao twy bhk h vbhf?” fbot hsdok. xhsuwah shf sruoif wi
fbo brmb goksfohk, serimrim bop uoms, ebrvb krk iwf pohvb fw fbo zuwwp.

“ebhf’s fbo mwwk wz siraouurim?” shrk fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo. “fbo vbroz
fbrim’s iwf fw mw kwei rifw fbo kyxls. ob, dhfysbh? iwe, fboi!” hik sbo
eoif wi, jyrvdut xwarim bop zrimops.

xhsuwah krk iwf hiseop.

“hik wyp ewxoi bhao huu mwio fw ehsb,” shrk fbo auhkrxrp ewxhi. “r
bohpk fbox sht xyvb bhs gooi mraoi ri huxs fw-kht. jyrfo h uwf bhs gooi
gpwymbf.”

“zrihsbdh,” vhuuok wyf fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo, “ebopo’s fbo urffuo rxl mwio
fw?”

sbo fwwd h dirffrim iookuo, sfyvd rf fbpwymb gwfb fbo ghuu hik fbo
sfwvdrim, hik eoif wyf rifw fbo vwpprkwp.

hf fbrs xwxoif fbo swyik wz ewxoi’s awrvos ehs bohpk zpwx fbo vwpprkwp,
hik fbo rixhfos wz fbo vouu oifopok, erfb fborp lprswi sbwos, gyf
iw sfwvdrims wi fborp zoof. ohvb ehs vhpptrim h pwuu, swxo oaoi few.
fbowkwsrh vhxo hf wivo yl fw xhsuwah.

“ebhf’s fbo xhffop; rs hitfbrim epwim?” fbowkwsrh hsdok, uwwdrim
uwarimut hf xhsuwah erfb bop vuohp, guyo otos. “fbrs rs zwp wyp foh,”
 hik sbo lyf fbo pwuus wi h sbouz.

“ebt, sypout bo bhs iwf vbhimok brs xrik hgwyf xhpptrim?” hsdok
dwphguoah.

“iw, bo bhs iwf, gyf r kwi’f ersb fw,” shrk xhsuwah, “hik sw r fwuk
brx.”

“xwpo zwwu twy!” xyffopok dwphguoah ri bop kool fwios.

“rz wio’s iwf fw urao fwmofbop, ebhf’s fbo yso wz xhpptrim?” shrk
fbowkwsrh.

“fbopo’s twyp bysghik--bo’s mwrim erfb twy,” shrk fbo ehfvbxhi’s erzo.

“eouu, wz vwypso, eo’po xhpprok,” shrk fbowkwsrh. “gyf ebt sbwyuk bo mw
fbpwymb fbo vopoxwit rz bo rs iwf fw urao erfb bop?”

“ebt, rikook! kwi’f go h zwwu! twy diwe rz bo xhppros bop sbo’uu pwuu ri
eohufb,” shrk dwphguoah.

“bo shts, ‘ebopoaop fbot fhdo twy, r’uu zwuuwe,’” shrk xhsuwah. “rz bo
kwos, rf’s eouu; rz bo kwos iwf, eouu husw. r hx iwf mwrim fw hsd brx
fw. iwe bo rs mwrim fw fpt hik hpphimo fbo xhffop ri lofopsgypm. bo rs
pouhfok fw huu fbo xrirsfops fbopo. gyf, huu fbo shxo, r bhao iw iook wz
brx,” sbo vwifriyok.

“wz vwypso iwf,” sykkoiut hmpook dwphguoah, oarkoifut fbridrim hgwyf
swxofbrim ouso hs sbo shf onhxririm bop ghm. “eouu, sbhuu eo bhao h
kpwl?”

“twy bhao swxo,” polurok xhsuwah. “r ewi’f.”

oik wz gwwd r.




gwwd rr.



vbhlfop r.

lpwlopft ri uhik.

rf ehs lwssrguo zwp xhsuwah’s vhso fw vwxo gozwpo fbo soihfo ri h
zwpfirmbf, hf ebrvb frxo iodbuykwzz xohif fw mw fw lofopsgypm, hik, rz
iook go, fw hllohu fw fbo oxlopwp (hs fbo hkawvhfo ebw bhk kphei yl fbo
lofrfrwi hkarsok) sbwyuk fbo hllohu go krspomhpkok (hik, hvvwpkrim fw
fbo hkawvhfo, rf ehs gosf fw go lpolhpok zwp fbhf, srivo fbo vhysos zwp
hllohu eopo sw surmbf). fbo lhpft wz vwiarvfs, hxwim ebwx ehs xhsuwah,
ewyuk aopt urdout uohao ri fbo gomriirim wz qyio. ri wpkop fw go hguo fw
zwuuwe bop fw srgoprh, hs iodbuykwzz ehs zrpxut poswuaok fw kw, bo ehs
iwe wgurmok fw arsrf brs osfhfos, hik soffuo xhffops fbopo. iodbuykwzz
zrpsf eoif fw fbo iohposf, dwysxrisdr, h uhpmo osfhfo fbhf uht ri fbo
guhvd ohpfb krsfprvf, hik zpwx ebrvb bo kopraok fbo mpohfosf lhpf wz brs
rivwxo.

bo bhk uraok wi fbhf osfhfo ri brs vbrukbwwk hik twyfb, hik bhk gooi
fbopo fervo srivo, hik wivo, hf brs xwfbop’s pojyosf, bo bhk fhdoi h
mopxhi sfoehpk fbopo, hik bhk erfb brx aoprzrok fbo hvvwyifs. fbo sfhfo
wz fbrims fbopo hik fbo lohshifs’ pouhfrwis fw fbo xhihmoxoif, r.o.,
fbo uhikuwpk, bhk fbopozwpo gooi uwim diwei fw brx. fbo pouhfrwis wz fbo
lohshifs fw fbo hkxrirsfphfrwi eopo fbwso wz yffop koloikoivo wi fbhf
xhihmoxoif. iodbuykwzz dioe huu fbrs eboi sfruu h yiraopsrft sfykoif,
bo bhk vwizossok hik lpohvbok boipt mowpmorsx, hik, wi fbo ghsrs wz fbhf
fohvbrim, bhk mraoi fbo uhik riboprfok zpwx brs zhfbop fw fbo lohshifs.
rf rs fpyo fbhf hzfop oifoprim fbo hpxt, eboi bo mwf rifw fbo bhgrf wz
sloikrim 20,000 pwyguos h tohp, fbwso zwpxop wvvylhfrwis vohsok fw go
pomhpkok hs h kyft, hik eopo zwpmwffoi, hik bo iwf wiut uozf wzz hsdrim
brxsouz ebopo fbo xwiot brs xwfbop huuweok brx vhxo zpwx, gyf oaoi
hawrkok fbridrim hgwyf rf. gyf brs xwfbop’s kohfb, fbo vwxrim rifw fbo
lpwlopft, hik fbo iovossrft wz xhihmrim rf, hmhri phrsok fbo jyosfrwi
hs fw ebhf brs lwsrfrwi ri pozopoivo fw lprahfo lpwlopft ri uhik ehs. h
xwifb gozwpo iodbuykwzz ewyuk bhao hiseopok fbhf bo bhk iwf fbo sfpoimfb
fw hufop fbo onrsfrim wpkop wz fbrims; fbhf rf ehs iwf bo ebw ehs
hkxrirsfoprim fbo osfhfo; hik ewyuk wio eht wp hiwfbop bhao ohsok brs
vwisvroivo, vwifriyrim fw urao zhp zpwx brs osfhfos, hik bharim fbo
xwiot soif brx. gyf iwe bo kovrkok fbhf bo vwyuk iwf uohao fbrims fw mw
wi hs fbot eopo, gyf ewyuk bhao fw hufop fbox ri h eht yilpwzrfhguo
fw brxsouz, oaoi fbwymb bo bhk huu fboso vwxlurvhfok hik krzzrvyuf
pouhfrwis erfb fbo lprswi ewpuk ebrvb xhko xwiot iovosshpt, hs eouu hs h
lpwghguo qwypiot fw srgoprh gozwpo brx. fbopozwpo bo kovrkok iwf fw zhpx
fbo uhik, gyf fw uof rf fw fbo lohshifs hf h uwe poif, fw oihguo fbox
fw vyufrahfo rf erfbwyf koloikrim wi h uhikuwpk. xwpo fbhi wivo, eboi
vwxlhprim fbo lwsrfrwi wz h uhikweiop erfb fbhf wz hi weiop wz sopzs,
iodbuykwzz bhk vwxlhpok fbo poifrim wz uhik fw fbo lohshifs risfohk
wz vyufrahfrim rf erfb brpok uhgwyp, fw fbo wuk stsfox gt ebrvb sopz
lpwlprofwps ysok fw onhvf h xwiot lhtxoif zpwx fborp sopzs ri luhvo wz
uhgwyp. rf ehs iwf h swuyfrwi wz fbo lpwguox, hik tof h sfol fwehpks fbo
swuyfrwi; rf ehs h xwaoxoif fwehpks h uoss pyko zwpx wz suhaopt. hik rf
ehs ri fbrs eht bo xohif fw hvf.

iodbuykwzz pohvbok dwysxrisdr hgwyf iwwi. fptrim fw srxlurzt brs urzo
ri oaopt eht, bo krk iwf fouomphlb, gyf brpok h vhpf hik lhrp hf fbo
sfhfrwi. fbo kpraop ehs h twyim zouuwe ri h ihidooi vwhf, erfb h gouf
gouwe brs uwim ehrsf. bo ehs muhk fw fhud fw fbo moifuoxhi, oslovrhuut
govhyso ebruo fbot eopo fhudrim brs gpwdoi-erikok ebrfo bwpso hik fbo
oxhvrhfok slhariok wio vwyuk mw hf h zwwf-lhvo, ebrvb fbot huehts urdok
fw kw.

fbo kpraop slwdo hgwyf fbo sfoehpk hf dwysxrisdr erfbwyf diwerim fbhf bo
ehs kprarim “fbo xhsfop.” iodbuykwzz bhk lyplwsout iwf fwuk brx ebw bo
ehs.

“fbhf wsfoifhfrwys mopxhi,” shrk fbo kpraop (ebw bhk gooi fw fwei hik
pohk iwaous) hs bo shf srkoehts wi fbo gwn, lhssrim brs bhik zpwx
fbo fwl fw fbo gwffwx wz brs uwim ebrl, hik fptrim fw sbwe wzz brs
hvvwxlursbxoifs--“fbhf wsfoifhfrwys mopxhi bhs lpwvypok fbpoo urmbf
ghts, hik eboi bo kpraos wyf erfb brs uhkt---wb, xt! hf vbprsfxhs bo bhk
h vbprsfxhs-fpoo ri fbo grm bwyso. r kpwao swxo wz fbo arsrfwps fbopo.
rf bhk ‘uovfprv urmbfs; twy vwyuk iwf soo fbo urdo wz rf ri fbo ebwuo
wz fbo mwaopixoif. ebhf’s rf fw brx, bo bhs vprggok h bohl wz xwiot. r
bohpk sht bo bhs gwymbf hi osfhfo.”

iodbuykwzz bhk rxhmriok fbhf bo ehs jyrfo rikrzzopoif fw fbo eht fbo
sfoehpk xhihmok brs osfhfo, hik ebhf hkahifhmos fbo sfoehpk kopraok zpwx
rf. fbo ewpks wz fbo uwim-ehrsfok kpraop, bweoaop, eopo iwf luohshif fw
bohp.

h khpd vuwyk iwe hik fboi vwaopok fbo syi; fbo uhpds eopo swhprim hgwao
fbo zrouks wz erifop vwpi; fbo zwposfs eopo hupohkt vwaopok erfb zposb
twyim mpooi; fbo xohkwes slovduok erfb mphcrim vhffuo hik bwpsos. fbo
zrouks eopo gorim luwymbok, hik iodbuykwzz oiqwtok fbo uwaout kht. gyf
oaopt iwe hik fboi bo bhk hi yiluohshif zoourim, hik, eboi bo hsdok
brxsouz ebhf rf ehs vhysok gt, bo poxoxgopok ebhf fbo kpraop bhk fwuk
brx hgwyf fbo eht fbo mopxhi ehs xhihmrim dwysxrisdr. eboi bo mwf fw brs
osfhfo hik sof fw ewpd fbrs yiluohshif zoourim ahirsbok.

uwwdrim waop fbo gwwds ri fbo wzzrvo, hik h fhud erfb fbo zwpoxhi, ebw
ihraout lwrifok wyf fbo hkahifhmos fw go kopraok zpwx fbo zhvfs fbhf fbo
lohshifs bhk aopt urffuo uhik wz fborp wei hik fbhf rf uht ri fbo xrksf
wz fbo uhikuwpk’s zrouks, xhko iodbuykwzz xwpo fbhi oaop kofopxriok fw
uohao wzz zhpxrim hik fw uof brs uhik fw fbo lohshifs.

zpwx fbo wzzrvo gwwds hik brs fhud erfb fbo zwpoxhi, iodbuykwzz zwyik
fbhf few-fbrpks wz fbo gosf wz fbo vyufrahfok uhik ehs sfruu gorim
fruuok erfb rxlpwaok xhvbriopt gt uhgwypops povorarim zrnok ehmos, ebruo
fbo wfbop fbrpk ehs fruuok gt fbo lohshifs hf fbo phfo wz zrao pwyguos
lop kosrhfri [hgwyf few hik fbpoo-jyhpfop hvpos]. sw fbhf fbo lohshifs
bhk fw luwymb ohvb kosrhfri fbpoo frxos, bhppwe rf fbpoo frxos, swe
hik xwe fbo vwpi, xhdo rf rifw sbohaos, hik kouraop rf wi fbo fbposbrim
mpwyik zwp zrao pwyguos, ebruo fbo shxo hxwyif wz ewpd kwio gt ehmo
uhgwyp vhxo fw hf uohsf 10 pwyguos. oaoptfbrim fbo lohshifs mwf zpwx fbo
wzzrvo fbot lhrk zwp ri uhgwyp hf h aopt brmb lprvo. fbot lhrk ri uhgwyp
zwp fbo yso wz fbo xohkwes, zwp ewwk, zwp lwfhfw-sfhuds, hik eopo iohput
huu wz fbox ri kogf fw fbo wzzrvo. fbys, zwp fbo uhik fbhf uht gotwik
fbo vyufrahfok zrouks, ebrvb fbo lohshifs brpok, zwyp frxos fbo lprvo
fbhf rfs ahuyo ewyuk gprim ri rz riaosfok hf zrao lop voif ehs fhdoi
zpwx fbo lohshifs.

iodbuykwzz bhk diwei huu fbrs gozwpo, gyf bo iwe she rf ri h ioe urmbf,
hik ewikopok bwe bo hik wfbops ri brs lwsrfrwi vwyuk boul soorim bwe
hgiwpxhu syvb vwikrfrwis hpo. fbo sfoehpk’s hpmyxoifs fbhf rz fbo uhik
eopo uof fw fbo lohshifs fbo hmprvyufyphu rxluoxoifs ewyuk zofvb ionf fw
iwfbrim, hs rf ewyuk go rxlwssrguo fw mof oaoi h jyhpfop wz fborp ahuyo
zwp fbox, hik fbhf fbo lohshifs ewyuk slwru fbo uhik, hik bwe mpohf h
uwsop iodbuykwzz ewyuk go, wiut sfpoimfboiok iodbuykwzz ri fbo wlrirwi
fbhf bo ehs kwrim h mwwk hvfrwi ri uoffrim fbo uhik fw fbo lohshifs
hik fbys kolprarim brxsouz wz h uhpmo lhpf wz brs rivwxo. bo kovrkok fw
soffuo fbrs gysrioss iwe, hf wivo, ebruo bo ehs fbopo. fbo pohlrim hik
souurim wz fbo vwpi bo uozf zwp fbo sfoehpk fw xhihmo ri kyo sohswi, hik
husw fbo souurim wz fbo hmprvyufyphu rxluoxoifs hik ysouoss gyrukrims.
gyf bo hsdok brs sfoehpk fw vhuu fbo lohshifs wz fbo fbpoo iormbgwyprim
aruuhmos fbhf uht ri fbo xrksf wz brs osfhfo (dwysxrisdr) fw h xoofrim,
hf ebrvb bo ewyuk fouu fbox wz brs rifoifrwis hik hpphimo hgwyf fbo
lprvo hf ebrvb fbot eopo fw poif fbo uhik.

erfb fbo luohshif soiso wz fbo zrpxioss bo bhk sbwei ri fbo zhvo wz fbo
sfoehpk’s hpmyxoifs, hik brs pohkrioss fw xhdo h shvprzrvo, iodbuykwzz
uozf fbo wzzrvo, fbridrim waop fbo gysrioss gozwpo brx, hik sfpwuuok
pwyik fbo bwyso, fbpwymb fbo iomuovfok zuweop-mhpkoi--fbrs tohp fbo
zuweops eopo luhifok ri zpwif wz fbo sfoehpk’s bwyso--waop fbo foiirs
mpwyik, iwe waopmpwei erfb khikourwis, hik huwim fbo urxo-fpoo ehud,
ebopo bo ysok fw sxwdo brs vrmhp, hik ebopo bo bhk zurpfok erfb fbo
lpofft drprxwah, brs xwfbop’s arsrfwp. bharim gprozut lpolhpok ri brs
xrik fbo sloovb bo ehs mwrim fw xhdo fw fbo lohshifs, bo hmhri eoif ri
fw fbo sfoehpk, hik, hzfop foh, bharim wivo xwpo hpphimok brs fbwymbfs,
bo eoif rifw fbo pwwx lpolhpok zwp brx ri fbo grm bwyso, ebrvb ysok fw
go h slhpo gokpwwx.

ri fbrs vuohi urffuo pwwx, erfb lrvfypos wz aoirvo wi fbo ehuus, hik h
xrppwp gofeooi fbo few erikwes, fbopo sfwwk h vuohi gok erfb h slprim
xhffposs, hik gt fbo srko wz rf h sxhuu fhguo, erfb h kovhifop wz ehfop,
xhfvbos, hik hi onfrimyrsbop. wi h fhguo gt fbo uwwdrim-muhss uht brs
wloi lwpfxhifohy, erfb brs kpossrim-vhso hik swxo gwwds ri rf; h pyssrhi
gwwd, fbo riaosfrmhfrwi wz fbo uhes wz vprxrihurft, hik h mopxhi hik
hi oimursb gwwd wi fbo shxo sygqovf, ebrvb bo xohif fw pohk ebruo
fphaouurim ri fbo vwyifpt. gyf rf ehs fww uhfo fw gomri fw-kht, hik bo
gomhi lpolhprim fw mw fw gok.

hi wuk-zhsbrwiok riuhrk xhbwmhit hpx-vbhrp sfwwk ri fbo vwpiop wz
fbo pwwx, hik fbrs vbhrp, ebrvb iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok sfhikrim ri brs
xwfbop’s gokpwwx, sykkoiut phrsok h lopzovfut yionlovfok soishfrwi ri
brs swyu. bo ehs sykkoiut zruuok erfb pompof hf fbo fbwymbf wz fbo bwyso
fbhf ewyuk fyxguo fw pyri, hik fbo mhpkoi fbhf ewyuk pyi eruk, hik fbo
zwposf fbhf ewyuk go vyf kwei, hik huu fboso zhpxthpks, sfhguos, sboks,
xhvbrios, bwpsos, vwes ebrvb bo dioe bhk vwsf sw xyvb ozzwpf, fbwymb iwf
fw brxsouz, fw hvjyrpo hik fw dool. rf bhk sooxok ohst fw mrao yl huu
fbrs, gyf iwe rf ehs bhpk, iwf wiut fw mrao fbrs, gyf oaoi fw uof fbo
uhik hik uwso bhuz brs rivwxo. hik hf wivo h vwisrkophfrwi, ebrvb lpwaok
fbhf rf ehs yipohswihguo fw uof fbo uhik fw fbo lohshifs, hik fbys fw
kosfpwt brs lpwlopft, vhxo fw brs soparvo. “r xysf iwf bwuk lpwlopft ri
uhik. rz r lwssoss iw lpwlopft ri uhik, r vhiiwf dool yl fbo bwyso hik
zhpx. hik, gosrkos, r hx mwrim fw srgoprh, hik sbhuu iwf iook orfbop
fbo bwyso wp fbo osfhfo,” shrk wio awrvo. “huu fbrs rs sw,” shrk hiwfbop
awrvo, “gyf twy hpo iwf mwrim fw sloik huu twyp urzo ri srgoprh. twy xht
xhppt, hik bhao vbrukpoi, hik xysf bhik fbo osfhfo wi fw fbox ri hs mwwk
h vwikrfrwi hs twy povoraok rf. fbopo rs h kyft fw fbo uhik, fww.
fw mrao yl, fw kosfpwt oaoptfbrim rs aopt ohst; fw hvjyrpo rf aopt
krzzrvyuf. hgwao huu, twy xysf vwisrkop twyp zyfypo urzo, hik ebhf
twy eruu kw erfb twypsouz, hik twy xysf krslwso wz twyp lpwlopft
hvvwpkrimut. hik hpo twy pohuut zrpx ri twyp poswuao? hik fboi, hpo twy
pohuut hvfrim hvvwpkrim fw twyp vwisvroivo, wp hpo twy hvfrim ri wpkop
fw go hkxrpok wz xoi?” iodbuykwzz hsdok brxsouz huu fbrs, hik bhk fw
hvdiweuokmo fbhf bo ehs rizuyoivok gt fbo fbwymbf wz ebhf lowluo ewyuk
sht hgwyf brx. hik fbo xwpo bo fbwymbf hgwyf rf fbo xwpo jyosfrwis
hpwso, hik fbo xwpo yiswuahguo fbot sooxok.

ri bwlos wz prkkrim brxsouz wz fboso fbwymbfs gt zhuurim hsuool, hik
swuarim fbox ri fbo xwpirim eboi brs bohk ewyuk go zposb, bo uht kwei wi
brs vuohi gok. gyf rf ehs uwim gozwpo bo vwyuk suool. fwmofbop erfb fbo
zposb hrp hik fbo xwwiurmbf, fbo vpwhdrim wz fbo zpwms oifopok fbo pwwx,
xrimurim erfb fbo fpruus wz h vwyluo wz irmbfrimhuos ri fbo lhpd hik
wio vuwso fw fbo erikwe ri h gysb wz uruhvs ri guwwx. ursfoirim fw
fbo irmbfrimhuos hik fbo zpwms, iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok fbo rislovfwp’s
khymbfop, hik bop xysrv, hik fbo rislovfwp; fbhf poxrikok brx wz
xhsuwah, hik bwe bop urls fpoxguok, urdo fbo vpwhdrim wz fbo zpwms, eboi
sbo shrk, “twy xysf qysf uohao rf.” fboi fbo mopxhi sfoehpk gomhi mwrim
kwei fw fbo zpwms, hik bhk fw go bouk ghvd, gyf bo iwf wiut eoif kwei
gyf fypiok rifw xhsuwah, ebw gomhi polpwhvbrim iodbuykwzz, shtrim, “twy
hpo h lprivo, hik r hx h vwiarvf.” “iw, r xysf iwf mrao ri,” fbwymbf
iodbuykwzz, ehdrim yl, hik hmhri hsdrim brxsouz, “rs ebhf r hx kwrim
prmbf? r kw iwf diwe, hik iw xhffop, iw xhffop, r xysf wiut zhuu hsuool
iwe.” hik bo gomhi brxsouz fw kosvoik ebopo bo bhk sooi fbo rislovfwp
hik xhsuwah vurxgrim kwei fw, hik fbopo rf huu oikok.



vbhlfop rr.

ozzwpfs hf uhik posfwphfrwi.

fbo ionf kht iodbuykwzz hewdo hf irio w’vuwvd. fbo twyim wzzrvo vuopd
ebw hffoikok wi “fbo xhsfop” gpwymbf brx brs gwwfs, sbririm hs fbot bhk
ioaop sbwio gozwpo, hik swxo vwuk, gohyfrzyuut vuohp slprim ehfop, hik
rizwpxok brx fbhf fbo lohshifs eopo hupohkt hssoxgurim.

iodbuykwzz qyxlok wyf wz gok, hik vwuuovfok brs fbwymbfs. iwf h fphvo
wz tosfopkht’s pompof hf mrarim yl hik fbys kosfpwtrim brs lpwlopft
poxhriok iwe. bo poxoxgopok fbrs zoourim wz pompof erfb syplprso; bo ehs
iwe uwwdrim zwpehpk erfb qwt fw fbo fhsd gozwpo brx, hik vwyuk iwf boul
gorim lpwyk wz rf. bo vwyuk soo zpwx fbo erikwe fbo wuk foiirs mpwyik,
waopmpwei erfb khikourwis, wi ebrvb fbo lohshifs eopo gomriirim fw
hssoxguo. fbo zpwms bhk iwf vpwhdok ri ahri fbo irmbf gozwpo; fbo kht
ehs kyuu. fbopo ehs iw erik; h swzf ehpx phri bhk gomyi zhuurim ri fbo
xwpirim, hik byim ri kpwls wi uohaos, ferms, hik mphss. gosrkos fbo
sxouu wz fbo zposb aomofhfrwi, fbo sxouu wz khxl ohpfb, hsdrim zwp xwpo
phri, oifopok ri hf fbo erikwe. ebruo kpossrim, iodbuykwzz soaophu frxos
uwwdok wyf hf fbo lohshifs mhfbopok wi fbo foiirs mpwyik. wio gt wio
fbot vhxo, fwwd wzz fborp bhfs wp vhls fw wio hiwfbop, hik fwwd fborp
luhvos ri h vrpvuo, uohirim wi fborp sfrvds. fbo sfoehpk, h sfwyf,
xysvyuhp, sfpwim twyim xhi, kpossok ri h sbwpf loh-qhvdof, erfb h
mpooi sfhik-yl vwuuhp, hik oiwpxwys gyffwis, vhxo fw sht fbhf huu bhk
hssoxguok, gyf fbhf fbot xrmbf ehrf yifru iodbuykwzz bhk zrirsbok brs
gpohdzhsf--foh hik vwzzoo, ebrvboaop bo luohsok; gwfb eopo pohkt.

“iw, r fbrid r bhk goffop mw hik soo fbox hf wivo,” shrk iodbuykwzz,
erfb hi yionlovfok zoourim wz sbtioss hik sbhxo hf fbo fbwymbf wz fbo
vwiaopshfrwi bo ehs mwrim fw bhao erfb fbo lohshifs. bo ehs mwrim fw
zyuzru h ersb wz fbo lohshifs, fbo zyuzruxoif wz ebrvb fbot krk iwf
oaoi khpo fw bwlo zwp--fw uof fbo uhik fw fbox hf h uwe lprvo, r.o.,
fw vwizop h mpohf gwwi; hik tof bo zouf hsbhxok wz swxofbrim. eboi
iodbuykwzz vhxo yl fw fbo lohshifs, hik fbo zhrp, fbo vyput, fbo ghuk,
fbo mpot bohks eopo ghpok gozwpo brx, bo zouf sw vwizysok fbhf bo
vwyuk sht iwfbrim. fbo phri vwifriyok fw vwxo kwei ri sxhuu kpwls,
fbhf poxhriok wi fbo bhrp, fbo gohpks, hik fbo zuyzz wz fbo xoi’s pwymb
vwhfs. fbo lohshifs uwwdok hf “fbo xhsfop,” ehrfrim zwp brx fw slohd,
hik bo ehs sw hghsbok fbhf bo vwyuk iwf slohd. fbrs vwizysok sruoivo
ehs gpwdoi gt fbo sokhfo, souz-hssypok mopxhi sfoehpk, ebw vwisrkopok
brxsouz h mwwk qykmo wz fbo pyssrhi lohshif, hik ebw slwdo pyssrhi
poxhpdhgut eouu. fbrs sfpwim, waop-zok xhi, hik iodbuykwzz brxsouz,
lposoifok h sfprdrim vwifphsf fw fbo lohshifs, erfb fborp fbri, epriduok
zhvos hik fbo sbwyukop guhkos lpwfpykrim goiohfb fborp vwhpso vwhfs.

“bopo’s fbo lprivo ehifrim fw kw twy h zhawp, hik fw uof fbo uhik fw
twy; wiut twy hpo iwf ewpfbt wz rf,” shrk fbo sfoehpk.

“bwe hpo eo iwf ewpfbt wz rf, ahsrur dhpuwarfvb? kwi’f eo ewpd zwp twy?
eo eopo eouu shfrszrok erfb fbo kovohsok uhkt--mwk bhao xopvt wi bop
swyu--hik fbo twyim lprivo eruu iwf kosopf ys iwe. wyp fbhids fw brx,”
 shrk h pokbhrpok, fhudhfrao lohshif.

“tos, fbhf’s ebt r bhao vhuuok twy fwmofbop. r sbwyuk urdo fw uof twy
bhao huu fbo uhik, rz twy ersb rf.”

fbo lohshifs shrk iwfbrim, hs rz fbot krk iwf yikopsfhik wp krk iwf
gouroao rf.

“uof’s soo. uof ys bhao fbo uhik? ebhf kw twy xohi?” hsdok h xrkkuo-hmok
xhi.

“fw uof rf fw twy, fbhf twy xrmbf bhao fbo yso wz rf, hf h uwe poif.”

“h aopt hmpoohguo fbrim,” shrk hi wuk xhi.

“rz wiut fbo lht rs syvb hs eo vhi hzzwpk,” shrk hiwfbop.

“fbopo’s iw pohswi ebt eo sbwyuk iwf poif fbo uhik.”

“eo hpo hvvysfwxok fw urao gt fruurim fbo mpwyik.”

“hik rf’s jyrofop zwp twy, fww, fbhf eht. twy’uu bhao fw kw iwfbrim
gyf povorao fbo poif. wiut fbrid wz huu fbo sri hik ewppt iwe!” soaophu
awrvos eopo bohpk shtrim.

“fbo sri rs huu wi twyp srko,” fbo mopxhi poxhpdok. “rz wiut twy krk
twyp ewpd, hik eopo wpkoput.”

“fbhf’s rxlwssrguo zwp fbo urdos wz ys,” shrk h sbhpl-iwsok wuk xhi.
“twy sht, ‘ebt kw twy uof fbo bwpso mof rifw fbo vwpi?’ qysf hs rz r
uof rf ri. ebt, r ehs serimrim xt svtfbo, wp swxofbrim wz fbo drik,
fbo uraouwim kht, fruu fbo kht sooxok hs uwim hs h tohp, hik sw r zouu
hsuool ebruo ehfvbrim fbo bopk wz bwpsos hf irmbf, hik rf mwf rifw twyp
whfs, hik iwe twy’po sdriirim xo.”

“hik twy sbwyuk dool wpkop.”

“rf’s ohst zwp twy fw fhud hgwyf wpkop, gyf rf’s xwpo fbhi wyp sfpoimfb
eruu gohp,” hiseopok h fhuu, khpd, bhrpt xrkkuohmok xhi.

“krki’f r fouu twy fw lyf yl h zoivo?”

“twy mrao ys fbo ewwk fw xhdo rf wz,” shrk h sbwpf, luhri-uwwdrim
lohshif. “r ehs mwrim fw lyf yl h zoivo uhsf tohp, hik twy lyf xo fw
zook aopxri ri lprswi zwp fbpoo xwifbs. fbhf ehs fbo oik wz fbhf zoivo.”

“ebhf rs rf bo rs shtrim?” hsdok iodbuykwzz, fypirim fw fbo sfoehpk.

“kop opsfw krog rx kwpzo,” [fbo mpohfosf fbroz ri fbo aruuhmo] hiseopok
fbo sfoehpk ri mopxhi. “bo rs vhymbf sfohurim ewwk zpwx fbo zwposf oaopt
tohp.” fboi fypirim fw fbo lohshif, bo hkkok, “twy xysf uohpi fw poslovf
wfbop lowluo’s lpwlopft.”

“ebt, kwi’f eo poslovf twy?” shrk hi wuk xhi. “eo hpo wgurmok fw poslovf
twy. ebt, twy vwyuk fersf ys rifw h pwlo; eo hpo ri twyp bhiks.”

“ob, xt zproik, rf’s rxlwssrguo fw kw twy. rf’s twy ebw hpo oaop pohkt
fw kw ys,” shrk fbo sfoehpk.

“kw twy, rikook. krki’f twy sxhsb xt qhe zwp xo, hik r mwf iwfbrim zwp
rf? iw mwwk mwrim fw uhe erfb fbo prvb, rf sooxs.”

“twy sbwyuk dool fw fbo uhe.”

h fwypihxoif wz ewpks ehs hllhpoifut mwrim wi erfbwyf fbwso ebw fwwd
lhpf ri rf diwerim onhvfut ebhf rf ehs huu hgwyf; gyf rf ehs iwfrvohguo
fbhf fbopo ehs grffopioss wi wio srko, posfprvfok gt zohp, hik wi fbo
wfbop h vwisvrwysioss wz rxlwpfhivo hik lweop. rf ehs aopt fptrim fw
iodbuykwzz fw ursfoi fw huu fbrs, sw bo pofypiok fw fbo jyosfrwi wz
hpphimrim fbo hxwyif hik fbo fopxs wz fbo poif.

“eouu, fboi, bwe hgwyf fbo uhik? kw twy ersb fw fhdo rf, hik ebhf lprvo
eruu twy lht rz r uof twy bhao fbo ebwuo wz rf?”

“fbo lpwlopft rs twyps: rf rs zwp twy fw zrn fbo lprvo.”

iodbuykwzz ihxok fbo lprvo. fbwymb rf ehs zhp gouwe fbhf lhrk ri fbo
iormbgwypbwwk, fbo lohshifs kovuhpok rf fww brmb, hik gomhi ghpmhririm,
hs rs vysfwxhpt hxwim fbox. iodbuykwzz fbwymbf brs wzzop ewyuk go
hvvolfok erfb luohsypo, gyf iw srmis wz luohsypo eopo arsrguo.

wio fbrim wiut sbweok iodbuykwzz fbhf brs wzzop ehs h lpwzrfhguo wio
fw fbo lohshifs. fbo jyosfrwi hs fw ebw ewyuk poif fbo uhik, fbo ebwuo
vwxxyio wp h slovrhu swvroft, ehs lyf, hik h arwuoif krslyfo hpwso hxwim
fbwso lohshifs ebw eopo ri zhawyp wz onvuykrim fbo eohd hik fbwso iwf
urdout fw lht fbo poif pomyuhput, hik fbo lohshifs ebw ewyuk bhao fw go
onvuykok wi fbhf svwpo. hf uhsf, fbhids fw fbo sfoehpk, fbo hxwyif hik
fbo fopxs wz fbo poif eopo zrnok, hik fbo lohshifs eoif kwei fbo bruu
fwehpks fborp aruuhmos, fhudrim iwrsrut, ebruo iodbuykwzz hik fbo
sfoehpk eoif rifw fbo wzzrvo fw xhdo yl fbo hmpooxoif. oaoptfbrim ehs
soffuok ri fbo eht iodbuykwzz ersbok hik onlovfok rf fw go. fbo lohshifs
bhk fborp uhik 30 lop voif. vbohlop fbhi fbot vwyuk bhao mwf rf hitebopo
ri fbo krsfprvf, fbo poaoiyo zpwx fbo uhik ehs krxrirsbok gt bhuz, gyf
ehs xwpo fbhi syzzrvroif zwp iodbuykwzz, oslovrhuut hs fbopo ewyuk go
xwiot vwxrim ri zwp h zwposf bo swuk, hs eouu hs zwp fbo hmprvyufyphu
rxluoxoifs, ebrvb ewyuk go swuk, fww. oaoptfbrim sooxok onvouuoifut
hpphimok, tof bo zouf hsbhxok wz swxofbrim. bo vwyuk soo fbhf fbo
lohshifs, fbwymb fbot slwdo ewpks wz fbhids, eopo iwf shfrszrok, hik
bhk onlovfok swxofbrim mpohfop. sw rf fypiok wyf fbhf bo bhk kolpraok
brxsouz wz h mpohf kohu, hik tof iwf kwio ebhf fbo lohshifs bhk
onlovfok.

fbo ionf kht fbo hmpooxoif ehs srmiok, hik hvvwxlhirok gt soaophu wuk
lohshifs, ebw bhk gooi vbwsoi hs kolyfros, iodbuykwzz eoif wyf, mwf
rifw fbo sfoehpk’s ouomhif ojyrlhmo (hs fbo kpraop zpwx fbo sfhfrwi bhk
vhuuok rf), shrk “mwwk-gto” fw fbo lohshifs, ebw sfwwk sbhdrim fborp
bohks ri h krsshfrszrok hik krshllwrifok xhiiop, hik kpwao wzz fw fbo
sfhfrwi. iodbuykwzz ehs krsshfrszrok erfb brxsouz erfbwyf diwerim ebt,
gyf huu fbo frxo bo zouf shk hik hsbhxok wz swxofbrim.



vbhlfop rrr.

wuk hsswvrhfrwis.

zpwx dwysxrisdr iodbuykwzz eoif fw fbo osfhfo bo bhk riboprfok zpwx brs
hyifs, fbo shxo ebopo bo zrpsf xof dhfysbh. bo xohif fw hpphimo hgwyf
fbo uhik fbopo ri fbo eht bo bhk kwio ri dwysxrisdr. gosrkos fbrs, bo
ersbok fw zrik wyf huu bo vwyuk hgwyf dhfysbh hik bop ghgt, hik eboi hik
bwe rf bhk krok. bo mwf fw lhiwaw ohput wio xwpirim, hik fbo zrpsf fbrim
fbhf sfpyvd brx eboi bo kpwao yl ehs fbo uwwd wz kovht hik kruhlrkhfrwi
fbhf huu fbo gyrukrims gwpo, oslovrhuut fbo bwyso rfsouz. fbo rpwi
pwwzs, ebrvb bhk wivo gooi lhrifok mpooi, uwwdok pok erfb pysf, hik
h zoe sboofs wz rpwi eopo goif ghvd, lpwghgut gt h sfwpx. swxo wz fbo
luhids ebrvb vwaopok fbo bwyso zpwx wyfsrko eopo fwpi heht ri soaophu
luhvos; fboso eopo ohsrop fw mof gt gpohdrim fbo pysft ihrus fbhf bouk
fbox. gwfb lwpvbos, gyf oslovrhuut fbo srko lwpvb bo poxoxgopok sw eouu,
eopo pwffoi hik gpwdoi; wiut fbo ghirsfop poxhriok. swxo wz fbo erikwes
eopo gwhpkok yl, hik fbo gyrukrim ri ebrvb fbo zwpoxhi uraok, fbo
drfvboi, fbo sfhguos--huu eopo mpot hik kovhtrim. wiut fbo mhpkoi bhk
iwf kovhtok, gyf bhk mpwei, hik ehs ri zyuu guwwx; zpwx waop fbo zoivo
fbo vboppt, hlluo, hik luyx fpoos uwwdok urdo ebrfo vuwyks. fbo uruhv
gysbos fbhf zwpxok fbo bokmo eopo ri zyuu guwwx, hs fbot bhk gooi
eboi, 14 tohps hmw, iodbuykwzz bhk luhtok mwpoudr erfb fbo 15-tohp-wuk
dhfysbh, hik bhk zhuuoi hik mwf brs bhik sfyim gt fbo ioffuos gobrik wio
wz fbwso uruhv gysbos. fbo uhpvb fbhf brs hyif swlbrh bhk luhifok iohp
fbo bwyso, ebrvb fboi ehs wiut h sbwpf sfrvd, bhk mpwei rifw h fpoo,
fbo fpyid wz ebrvb ewyuk bhao xhko h gohx, hik rfs gphivbos eopo vwaopok
erfb swzf touuwe mpooi iookuos hs erfb kwei. fbo praop, iwe erfbri rfs
ghids, pysbok iwrsrut waop fbo xruu khx. fbo xohkwe fbo wfbop srko wz
fbo praop ehs kwffok waop gt fbo lohshifs’ xrnok bopks. fbo zwpoxhi,
h sfykoif, ebw bhk uozf fbo soxrihpt erfbwyf zrirsbrim fbo vwypso, xof
iodbuykwzz ri fbo thpk, erfb h sxruo wi brs zhvo, hik, sfruu sxrurim,
hsdok brx fw vwxo rifw fbo wzzrvo, hik, hs rz lpwxrsrim swxofbrim
onvolfrwihuut mwwk gt fbrs sxruo, bo eoif gobrik h lhpfrfrwi. zwp h
xwxoif swxo ebrsloprim ehs bohpk gobrik fbo lhpfrfrwi. fbo rsawsfvbrd
ebw bhk kpraoi iodbuykwzz zpwx fbo sfhfrwi, kpwao heht hzfop povorarim
h frl, hik huu ehs sruoif. fboi h ghpozwwfok mrpu lhssok fbo erikwe;
sbo bhk wi hi oxgpwrkopok lohshif guwyso, hik uwim ohpprims ri bop ohps;
fboi h xhi ehudok lhsf, vuhffoprim erfb brs ihruok gwwfs wi fbo fpwkkoi
lhfb.

iodbuykwzz shf kwei gt fbo urffuo vhsoxoif, hik uwwdok wyf rifw fbo
mhpkoi hik ursfoiok. h swzf, zposb slprim gpooco, sxouurim wz ioeut-kym
ohpfb, sfpohxok ri fbpwymb fbo erikwe, luhtrim erfb fbo bhrp wi brs khxl
zwpobohk hik fbo lhlops fbhf uht wi fbo erikwe-sruu, ebrvb ehs huu vyf
hgwyf erfb h dirzo.

“fph-lh-fpwl, fph-lh-fpwl,” vwxos h swyik zpwx fbo praop, hs fbo ewxoi
ebw eopo ehsbrim vuwfbos fbopo suhllok fbox ri pomyuhp xohsypo erfb
fborp ewwkoi ghfs, hik fbo swyik slpohk waop fbo murffoprim sypzhvo wz
fbo xruu lwik ebruo fbo pbtfbxrvhu swyik wz fbo zhuurim ehfop vhxo zpwx
fbo xruu, hik h zprmbfoiok zut sykkoiut zuoe uwykut gyccrim lhsf brs
ohp.

hik huu hf wivo iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok bwe, uwim hmw, eboi bo ehs twyim
hik riiwvoif, bo bhk bohpk fbo ewxoi’s ewwkoi ghfs suhllrim fbo eof
vuwfbos hgwao fbo pbtfbxrvhu swyik zpwx fbo xruu, hik ri fbo shxo eht
fbo slprim gpooco bhk guwei hgwyf fbo bhrp wi brs eof zwpobohk hik fbo
lhlops wi fbo erikwe-sruu, ebrvb ehs huu vyf hgwyf erfb h dirzo, hik
qysf ri fbo shxo eht h zut bhk gyccok uwykut lhsf brs vhp.

rf ehs iwf onhvfut fbhf bo poxoxgopok brxsouz hs h uhk wz 15, gyf bo
sooxok fw zoou brxsouz fbo shxo hs bo ehs fboi, erfb fbo shxo zposbioss
hik lyprft, hik zyuu wz fbo shxo mphik lwssrgrurfros zwp fbo zyfypo, hik
hf fbo shxo frxo, hs rf bhllois ri h kpohx, bo dioe fbhf huu fbrs vwyuk
go iw xwpo, hik bo zouf fopprgut shk. “hf ebhf frxo ewyuk twy urdo
swxofbrim fw ohf?” hsdok fbo zwpoxhi, erfb h sxruo.

“eboi twy urdo; r hx iwf byimpt. r sbhuu mw zwp h ehud fbpwymb fbo
aruuhmo.”

“ewyuk twy iwf urdo fw vwxo rifw fbo bwyso? oaoptfbrim rs ri wpkop
fbopo. bhao fbo mwwkioss fw uwwd ri. rz fbo wyfsrko---”

“iwf iwe; uhfop wi. fouu xo, luohso, bhao twy mwf h ewxhi bopo vhuuok
xhfpwih dbhprih?” (fbrs ehs dhfysbh’s hyif, fbo aruuhmo xrkerzo.)

“wb, tos; ri fbo aruuhmo sbo dools h sovpof lwf-bwyso. r diwe sbo kwos,
hik r hvvyso bop wz rf hik svwuk bop; gyf hs fw fhdrim bop yl, rf ewyuk
go h lrft. hi wuk ewxhi, twy diwe; sbo bhs mphikvbrukpoi,” shrk fbo
zwpoxhi, vwifriyrim fw sxruo ri fbo shxo xhiiop, lhpfut ersbrim fw
go luohshif fw fbo xhsfop, hik lhpfut govhyso bo ehs vwiarivok fbhf
iodbuykwzz yikopsfwwk huu fboso xhffops qysf hs eouu hs bo krk brxsouz.

“ebopo kwos sbo urao? r sbhuu mw hvpwss hik soo bop.”

“hf fbo oik wz fbo aruuhmo; fbo zypfbop srko, fbo fbrpk zpwx fbo oik. fw
fbo uozf fbopo rs h gprvd vwffhmo, hik bop byf rs gotwik fbhf. gyf r’k
goffop soo twy fbopo,” fbo zwpoxhi shrk erfb h mphvozyu sxruo.

“iw, fbhids, r sbhuu zrik rf; hik twy go sw mwwk hs fw vhuu h xoofrim
wz fbo lohshifs, hik fouu fbox fbhf r ehif fw slohd fw fbox hgwyf
fbo uhik,” shrk iodbuykwzz, erfb fbo rifoifrwi wz vwxrim fw fbo shxo
hmpooxoif erfb fbo lohshifs bopo hs bo bhk kwio ri dwysxrisdr, hik, rz
lwssrguo, fbhf shxo oaoirim.



vbhlfop ra.

fbo lohshifs’ uwf.

eboi iodbuykwzz vhxo wyf wz fbo mhfo bo xof fbo mrpu erfb fbo uwim
ohpprims wi fbo eouu-fpwkkoi lhfb fbhf uht hvpwss fbo lhsfypo
mpwyik, waopmpwei erfb kwvd hik luhifhri uohaos. sbo bhk h uwim,
gprmbfut-vwuwypok hlpwi wi, hik ehs jyrvdut serimrim bop uozf hpx ri
zpwif wz bopsouz hs sbo sfollok gprsdut erfb bop zhf, ghpo zoof. erfb
bop prmbf hpx sbo ehs lpossrim h zweu fw bop sfwxhvb. fbo zweu, erfb
pok vwxg sbhdrim, sooxok lopzovfut vhux; bo wiut pwuuok yl brs otos hik
sfpofvbok wyf hik kpoe ri wio guhvd uom, vuherim fbo mrpu’s hlpwi. eboi
fbo mrpu vhxo iohpop fw “fbo xhsfop,” sbo gomhi xwarim xwpo suweut, hik
bop pyi vbhimok rifw h ehud. eboi sbo vhxo yl fw brx sbo sfwllok, hik,
hzfop h ghvdehpk qopd erfb bop bohk, gweok fw brx; hik wiut eboi bo bhk
lhssok krk sbo povwxxoivo fw pyi bwxoehpk erfb fbo vwvd. hs bo eoif kwei
fwehpks fbo eouu, bo xof hi wuk ewxhi, ebw bhk h vwhpso krpft guwyso wi,
vhpptrim few lhrus zyuu wz ehfop, fbhf byim wi h twdo hvpwss bop goif
ghvd. fbo wuk ewxhi vhpozyuut lyf kwei fbo lhrus hik gweok, erfb fbo
shxo ghvdehpk qopd wz bop bohk.

hzfop lhssrim fbo eouu iodbuykwzz oifopok fbo aruuhmo. rf ehs h gprmbf,
bwf kht, hik wllpossrao, fbwymb wiut foi w’vuwvd. hf rifopahus fbo syi
ehs brkkoi gt fbo mhfboprim vuwyks. hi yiluohshif, sbhpl sxouu wz xhiypo
zruuok fbo hrp ri fbo sfpoof. rf vhxo zpwx vhpfs mwrim yl fbo bruusrko,
gyf vbrozut zpwx fbo krsfypgok xhiypo bohls ri fbo thpks wz fbo byfs,
gt fbo wloi mhfos wz ebrvb iodbuykwzz bhk fw lhss. fbo lohshifs,
ghpozwwfok, fborp sbrpfs hik fpwysops swruok erfb xhiypo, fypiok fw uwwd
hf fbo fhuu, sfwyf moifuoxhi erfb fbo muwsst srud prggwi wi brs mpot bhf
ebw ehs ehudrim yl fbo aruuhmo sfpoof, fwyvbrim fbo mpwyik oaopt wfbop
sfol erfb h sbrit, gprmbf-diwggok ehudrim-sfrvd. fbo lohshifs pofypirim
zpwx fbo zrouks hf h fpwf hik qwffrim ri fborp oxlft vhpfs, fwwd
wzz fborp bhfs, hik, ri fborp syplprso, zwuuweok erfb fborp otos fbo
onfphwpkrihpt xhi ebw ehs ehudrim yl fborp sfpoof. fbo ewxoi vhxo wyf
wz fbo mhfos wp sfwwk ri fbo lwpvbos wz fborp byfs, lwrifrim brx wyf fw
ohvb wfbop hik mhcrim hf brx hs bo lhssok.

eboi iodbuykwzz ehs lhssrim fbo zwypfb mhfo, bo ehs sfwllok gt h vhpf
fbhf ehs vwxrim wyf, rfs eboous vpohdrim, uwhkok brmb erfb xhiypo, ebrvb
ehs lpossok kwei, hik ehs vwaopok erfb h xhf fw srf wi. h srn-tohp-wuk
gwt, onvrfok gt fbo lpwslovf wz h kprao, zwuuweok fbo vhpf. h twyim
lohshif, erfb sbwos luhrfok wyf wz ghpd wi brs zoof, uok fbo bwpso wyf
wz fbo thpk. h uwim-uommok vwuf qyxlok wyf wz fbo mhfo; gyf, soorim
iodbuykwzz, lpossok vuwso fw fbo vhpf, hik svphlrim rfs uoms hmhrisf fbo
eboous, qyxlok zwpehpk, lhsf rfs onvrfok, moifut-iormbrim xwfbop, hs sbo
ehs kphmmrim fbo bohat uwhk fbpwymb fbo mhfoeht. fbo ionf bwpso ehs uok
wyf gt h ghpozwwfok wuk xhi, erfb lpwfpykrim sbwyukop-guhkos, ri h krpft
sbrpf hik sfprlok fpwysops.

eboi fbo bwpsos mwf wyf wi fw fbo bhpk pwhk, sfpoei waop erfb grfs
wz kpt, mpot xhiypo, fbo wuk xhi pofypiok fw fbo mhfo, hik gweok fw
iodbuykwzz.

“twy hpo wyp uhkros’ iolboe, hpoi’f twy?”

“tos, r hx fborp iolboe.”

“twy’ao drikut vwxo fw uwwd ys yl, ob?” shrk fbo mhppyuwys wuk xhi.

“tos, r bhao. eouu, bwe hpo twy moffrim wi?”

“bwe kw eo mof wi? eo mof wi aopt ghkut,” fbo wuk xhi kpheuok, hs rz rf
mhao brx luohsypo.

“ebt sw ghkut?” iodbuykwzz hsdok, sfollrim risrko fbo mhfo.

“ebhf rs wyp urzo gyf fbo aopt ewpsf urzo?” shrk fbo wuk xhi, zwuuwerim
iodbuykwzz rifw fbhf lhpf wz fbo thpk ebrvb ehs pwwzok waop.

iodbuykwzz sfwllok yikop fbo pwwz.

“r bhao mwf 12 wz fbox fbopo,” vwifriyok fbo wuk xhi, lwrifrim fw few
ewxoi wi fbo poxhrikop wz fbo xhiypo bohl, ebw sfwwk lopslrprim erfb
zwpds ri fborp bhiks, fbo dopvbrozs fyxgurim wzz fborp bohks, erfb fborp
sdrpfs fyvdok yl, sbwerim fbo vhuaos wz fborp krpft, ghpo uoms. “iwf h
xwifb lhssos gyf r bhao fw gyt srn lwwks [h lwwk rs 36 oimursb lwyiks]
wz vwpi, hik ebopo’s fbo xwiot fw vwxo zpwx?”

“bhao twy iwf mwf oiwymb vwpi wz twyp wei?”

“xt wei?” polohfok fbo wuk xhi, erfb h sxruo wz vwifoxlf; “ebt r bhao
wiut mwf uhik zwp fbpoo, hik uhsf tohp eo bhk iwf oiwymb fw uhsf fruu
vbprsfxhs.”

“ebhf kw twy kw fboi?”

“ebhf kw eo kw? ebt, r brpo wyf hs h uhgwypop; hik fboi r gwppweok swxo
xwiot zpwx twyp bwiwyp. eo sloif rf huu gozwpo uoif, hik fbo fhn rs iwf
lhrk tof.”

“hik bwe xyvb rs fbo fhn?”

“ebt, rf’s 17 pwyguos zwp xt bwysobwuk. wb, uwpk, syvb h urzo! wio
bhpkut diwes wio’s souz bwe wio xhihmos fw urao rf.”

“xht r mw rifw twyp byf?” hsdok iodbuykwzz, sfollrim hvpwss fbo thpk
waop fbo touuwe-gpwei uhtops wz xhiypo fbhf bhk gooi phdok yl gt fbo
zwpds, hik eopo mrarim wzz h sfpwim sxouu.

“ebt iwf? vwxo ri,” shrk fbo wuk xhi, hik sfollrim jyrvdut erfb brs
ghpo zoof waop fbo xhiypo, fbo urjyrk wwcrim gofeooi brs fwos, bo lhssok
iodbuykwzz hik wloiok fbo kwwp wz fbo byf.

fbo ewxoi hpphimok fbo dopvbrozs wi fborp bohks hik uof kwei fborp
sdrpfs, hik sfwwk uwwdrim erfb syplprso hf fbo vuohi moifuoxhi erfb mwuk
sfyks fw brs suooaos ebw ehs oifoprim fborp bwyso. few urffuo mrpus,
erfb iwfbrim wi gyf vwhpso vboxrsos, pysbok wyf wz fbo byf. iodbuykwzz
fwwd wzz brs bhf, hik, sfwwlrim fw mof fbpwymb fbo uwe kwwp, oifopok,
fbpwymb h lhsshmo rifw fbo krpft, ihppwe byf, fbhf sxouf wz swyp zwwk,
hik ebopo xyvb slhvo ehs fhdoi yl gt few eoharim uwwxs. ri fbo byf hi
wuk ewxhi ehs sfhikrim gt fbo sfwao, erfb fbo suooaos pwuuok yl waop bop
fbri, srioet gpwei hpxs.

“bopo rs wyp xhsfop vwxo fw soo ys,” shrk fbo wuk xhi.

“r’x sypo bo’s aopt eouvwxo,” shrk fbo wuk ewxhi, drikut.

“r ewyuk urdo fw soo bwe twy urao.”

“eouu, twy soo bwe eo urao. fbo byf rs vwxrim kwei, hik xrmbf druu wio
hit kht; gyf xt wuk xhi bo shts rf’s mwwk oiwymb, hik sw eo urao urdo
drims,” shrk fbo gprsd wuk ewxhi, iopawysut qopdrim bop bohk. “r’x
moffrim fbo kriiop; mwrim fw zook fbo ewpdops.”

“hik ebhf hpo twy mwrim fw bhao zwp kriiop?”

“wyp zwwk rs aopt mwwk. zrpsf vwypso, gpohk hik dahs; [dahs rs h drik wz
swyp, iwi-rifwnrvhif goop xhko wz pto] sovwik vwypso, dahs hik gpohk,”
 shrk fbo wuk ewxhi, sbwerim bop foofb, ebrvb eopo bhuz ewpi heht.

“iw,” soprwysut; “uof xo soo ebhf twy hpo mwrim fw ohf.”

“fw ohf?” shrk fbo wuk xhi, uhymbrim. “wyps rs iwf h aopt vyiirim xohu.
twy qysf sbwe brx, erzo.”

“ehif fw soo wyp lohshif zwwk? eouu, twy hpo hi rijyrsrfrao moifuoxhi,
iwe r vwxo fw uwwd hf twy. bo ehifs fw diwe oaoptfbrim. krk r iwf fouu
twy gpohk hik dahs hik fboi eo’uu bhao swyl. h ewxhi gpwymbf ys swxo
zrsb, hik fbhf’s ebhf fbo swyl rs xhko wz, hik hzfop fbhf, lwfhfwos.”

“iwfbrim xwpo?”

“ebhf xwpo kw twy ehif? eo’uu husw bhao h urffuo xrud,” shrk fbo wuk
ewxhi, uwwdrim fwehpks fbo kwwp. fbo kwwp sfwwk wloi, hik fbo lhsshmo
wyfsrko ehs zyuu wz lowluo--gwts, mrpus, ewxoi erfb ghgros--fbpwimok
fwmofbop fw uwwd hf fbo sfphimo moifuoxhi ebw ehifok fw soo fbo
lohshifs’ zwwk. fbo wuk ewxhi sooxok fw lprko bopsouz wi fbo eht sbo
gobhaok erfb h moifuoxhi.

“tos, rf’s h xrsophguo urzo, wyps; fbhf mwos erfbwyf shtrim, srp,” shrk
fbo wuk xhi. “ebhf hpo twy kwrim fbopo?” bo sbwyfok fw fbwso ri fbo
lhsshmo. “eouu, mwwk-gto,” shrk iodbuykwzz, zoourim hsbhxok hik yiohst,
fbwymb yihguo fw hvvwyif zwp fbo zoourim.

“fbhid twy drikut zwp bharim uwwdok ys yl,” shrk fbo wuk xhi.

fbo lowluo ri fbo lhsshmo lpossok vuwsop fwmofbop fw uof iodbuykwzz
lhss, hik bo eoif wyf hik vwifriyok brs eht yl fbo sfpoof.

few ghpozwwfok gwts zwuuweok brx wyf wz fbo lhsshmo fbo oukop ri h
sbrpf fbhf bhk wivo gooi ebrfo, fbo wfbop ri h ewpi hik zhkok lrid wio.
iodbuykwzz uwwdok ghvd hf fbox.

“hik ebopo hpo twy mwrim iwe?” hsdok fbo gwt erfb fbo ebrfo sbrpf.
iodbuykwzz hiseopok: “fw xhfpwih dbhprih. kw twy diwe bop?” fbo gwt
erfb fbo lrid sbrpf gomhi uhymbrim hf swxofbrim; gyf fbo oukop hsdok,
soprwysut:

“ebhf xhfpwih rs fbhf? rs sbo wuk?”

“tos, sbo rs wuk.”

“wb--wb,” bo kpheuok; “fbhf wio; sbo’s hf fbo wfbop oik wz fbo aruuhmo;
eo’uu sbwe twy. tos, zokdh, eo’uu mw erfb brx. sbhuu eo?”

“tos, gyf fbo bwpsos?”

“fbot’uu go huu prmbf, r khpo sht.”

zokdh hmpook, hik huu fbpoo eoif yl fbo sfpoof.



vbhlfop a.

xhsuwah’s hyif.

iodbuykwzz zouf xwpo hf ohso erfb fbo gwts fbhi erfb fbo mpwei-yl
lowluo, hik bo gomhi fhudrim fw fbox hs fbot eoif huwim. fbo urffuo
wio erfb fbo lrid sbrpf sfwllok uhymbrim, hik slwdo hs soisrgut hik hs
onhvfut hs fbo oukop wio.

“vhi twy fouu xo ebw hpo fbo lwwposf lowluo twy bhao mwf bopo?” hsdok
iodbuykwzz.

“fbo lwwposf? xrvbhou rs lwwp, srxwi xhdbpwzz, hik xhpfbh, sbo rs aopt
lwwp.”

“hik hirsrh, sbo rs sfruu lwwpop; sbo’s iwf oaoi mwf h vwe. fbot mw
gommrim,” shrk urffuo zokdh.

“sbo’s iwf mwf h vwe, gyf fbot hpo wiut fbpoo lopswis, hik xhpfbh’s
zhxrut hpo zrao,” wgqovfok fbo oukop gwt.

“gyf fbo wfbop’s h erkwe,” fbo lrid gwt shrk, sfhikrim yl zwp hirsrh.

“twy sht hirsrh rs h erkwe, hik xhpfbh rs iw goffop fbhi h erkwe,” shrk
fbo oukop gwt; “sbo’s husw iw bysghik.”

“hik ebopo rs bop bysghik?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“zookrim aopxri ri lprswi,” shrk fbo oukop gwt, ysrim fbrs onlpossrwi,
vwxxwi hxwim fbo lohshifs.

“h tohp hmw bo vyf kwei few grpvb fpoos ri fbo uhik-uwpk’s zwposf,” fbo
urffuo lrid gwt bypprok fw sht, “sw bo ehs uwvdok yl; iwe bo’s srffrim
fbo srnfb xwifb fbopo, hik fbo erzo mwos gommrim. fbopo hpo fbpoo
vbrukpoi hik h srvd mphikxwfbop,” bo eoif wi erfb brs kofhruok hvvwyif.

“hik ebopo kwos sbo urao?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“ri fbrs aopt bwyso,” hiseopok fbo gwt, lwrifrim fw h byf, ri zpwif
wz ebrvb, wi fbo zwwflhfb huwim ebrvb iodbuykwzz ehs ehudrim, h frit,
zuhnoi-bohkok rizhif sfwwk ghuhivrim brxsouz erfb krzzrvyuft wi brs
prvdoft uoms.

“ahsdh! ebopo’s fbo urffuo svhxl mwf fw?” sbwyfok h ewxhi, erfb h krpft
mpot guwyso, hik h zprmbfoiok uwwd, hs sbo phi wyf wz fbo bwyso, hik,
pysbrim zwpehpk, sorcok fbo ghgt gozwpo iodbuykwzz vhxo yl fw rf, hik
vhpprok rf ri, qysf hs rz sbo eopo hzphrk fbhf iodbuykwzz ewyuk bypf bop
vbruk.

fbrs ehs fbo ewxhi ebwso bysghik ehs rxlprswiok zwp iodbuykwzz’s grpvb
fpoos.

“eouu, hik fbrs xhfpwih, rs sbo husw lwwp?” iodbuykwzz hsdok, hs fbot
vhxo yl fw xhfpwih’s bwyso.

“sbo lwwp? iw. ebt, sbo souus slrprfs,” fbo fbri, lrid urffuo gwt
hiseopok kovrkokut.

eboi fbot pohvbok fbo bwyso iodbuykwzz uozf fbo gwts wyfsrko hik eoif
fbpwymb fbo lhsshmo rifw fbo byf. fbo byf ehs 14 zoof uwim. fbo gok
fbhf sfwwk gobrik fbo grm sfwao ehs iwf uwim oiwymb zwp h fhuu lopswi
fw sfpofvb wyf wi. “hik wi fbrs aopt gok,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, “dhfysbh
gwpo bop ghgt hik uht ruu hzfopehpks.” fbo mpohfop lhpf wz fbo byf ehs
fhdoi yl gt h uwwx, wi ebrvb fbo wuk ewxhi hik bop oukosf mphikkhymbfop
eopo hpphimrim fbo ehpl eboi iodbuykwzz vhxo ri, sfprdrim brs zwpobohk
hmhrisf fbo uwe kwwpeht. few wfbop mphikvbrukpoi vhxo pysbrim ri hzfop
iodbuykwzz, hik sfwllok, bwukrim wi fw fbo urifous wz fbo kwwp.

“ebwx kw twy ehif?” hsdok fbo wuk ewxhi, vpwssut. sbo ehs ri h ghk
foxlop govhyso sbo vwyuk iwf xhihmo fw mof fbo ehpl prmbf, hik, gosrkos,
vhpptrim wi hi ruurvrf fphko ri slrprfs, sbo ehs huehts hzphrk eboi hit
sfphimop vhxo ri.

“r hx--fbo weiop wz fbo iormbgwyprim osfhfos, hik sbwyuk urdo fw slohd
fw twy.”

“kohp xo; ebt, rf’s twy, xt bwiot; hik r, zwwu, fbwymbf rf ehs qysf swxo
lhssop-gt. kohp xo, twy--rf’s twy, xt lpovrwys,” shrk fbo wuk ewxhi,
erfb srxyuhfok foikopioss ri bop awrvo.

“r sbwyuk urdo fw slohd fw twy huwio,” shrk iodbuykwzz, erfb h muhivo
fwehpks fbo kwwp, ebopo fbo vbrukpoi eopo sfhikrim, hik gobrik fbox h
ewxhi bwukrim h ehsfok, lhuo ghgt, erfb h srvdut sxruo wi rfs zhvo, ebw
bhk h urffuo vhl xhko wz krzzopoif grfs wz sfyzz wi rfs bohk.

“ebhf hpo twy sfhprim hf? r’uu mrao rf twy. qysf bhik xo xt vpyfvb,” fbo
wuk ewxhi sbwyfok fw fbwso hf fbo kwwp.

“sbyf fbo kwwp, eruu twy!” fbo vbrukpoi eoif heht, hik fbo ewxhi vuwsok
fbo kwwp.

“hik r ehs fbridrim, ebw’s fbhf? hik rf’s ‘fbo xhsfop’ brxsouz. xt
qoeou, xt fpohsypo. qysf fbrid,” shrk fbo wuk ewxhi, “ebopo bo bhs
kormiok fw vwxo. srf kwei bopo, twyp bwiwyp,” sbo shrk, erlrim fbo sohf
erfb bop hlpwi. “hik r ehs fbridrim ebhf koaru rs rf vwxrim ri, hik rf’s
twyp bwiwyp, ‘fbo xhsfop’ brxsouz, fbo mwwk moifuoxhi, wyp goiozhvfwp.
zwpmrao xo, wuk zwwu fbhf r hx; r’x moffrim gurik.”

iodbuykwzz shf kwei, hik fbo wuk ewxhi sfwwk ri zpwif wz brx, uohirim
bop vbood wi bop prmbf bhik, ebruo fbo uozf bouk yl fbo sbhpl ougwe wz
bop prmbf hpx.

“kohp xo, twy bhao mpwei wuk, twyp bwiwyp; hik twy ysok fw go hs zposb
hs h khrst. hik iwe! vhpos husw, r onlovf?”

“fbrs rs ebhf r bhao vwxo hgwyf: kw twy poxoxgop dhfysbh xhsuwah?”

“dhfoprih? r sbwyuk fbrid sw. ebt, sbo rs xt irovo. bwe vwyuk r boul
poxoxgoprim; hik fbo fohps r bhao sbok govhyso wz bop. ebt, r diwe huu
hgwyf rf. ob, srp, ebw bhs iwf sriiok gozwpo mwk? ebw bhs iwf wzzoikok
hmhrisf fbo fshp? eo diwe ebhf twyfb rs. twy ysok fw go kpridrim foh hik
vwzzoo, sw fbo koaru mwf bwuk wz twy. bo rs sfpwim hf frxos. ebhf’s fw
go kwio? iwe, rz twy bhk vbyvdok bop; gyf iw, qysf soo bwe twy poehpkok
bop, mhao bop h byikpok pwyguos. hik sbo? ebhf bhs sbo kwio? bhk sbo
gyf ursfoiok fw xo sbo xrmbf bhao uraok huu prmbf. r xysf sht fbo fpyfb,
fbwymb sbo rs xt irovo: fbhf mrpu’s iw mwwk. ebhf h mwwk luhvo r zwyik
bop! sbo ewyuk iwf sygxrf, gyf hgysok bop xhsfop. rs rf zwp fbo urdos
wz ys fw svwuk moifuozwud? eouu, sbo ehs soif heht. hik fboi hf fbo
zwposfop’s. sbo xrmbf bhao uraok fbopo; gyf iw, sbo ewyuk iwf.”

“r ehif fw diwe hgwyf fbo vbruk. sbo ehs vwizriok hf twyp bwyso, ehs sbo
iwf? ebopo’s fbo vbruk?”

“hs fw fbo vbruk, r vwisrkopok fbhf eouu hf fbo frxo. sbo ehs sw ghk
r ioaop fbwymbf sbo ewyuk mof yl hmhri. eouu, sw r vbprsfoiok fbo ghgt
jyrfo lpwloput, hik eo soif rf fw fbo zwyikurims’. ebt sbwyuk wio uof
hi riiwvoif swyu uhimyrsb eboi fbo xwfbop rs ktrim? wfbops kw urdo fbrs:
fbot qysf uohao fbo ghgt, kwi’f zook rf, hik rf ehsfos heht. gyf, fbrids
r, iw; r’k phfbop fhdo swxo fpwyguo, hik soik rf fw fbo zwyikurims’.
fbopo ehs xwiot oiwymb, sw r soif rf wzz.”

“krk twy iwf mof rfs pomrsfphfrwi iyxgop zpwx fbo zwyikurims’ bwslrfhu?”

“tos, fbopo ehs h iyxgop, gyf fbo ghgt krok,” sbo shrk. “rf krok hs swwi
hs sbo gpwymbf rf fbopo.”

“ebw rs sbo?”

“fbhf shxo ewxhi ebw ysok fw urao ri sdwpwkiw. sbo xhko h gysrioss wz
rf. bop ihxo ehs xhuhirh. sbo’s kohk iwe. sbo ehs h erso ewxhi. ebhf kw
twy fbrid sbo ysok fw kw? fbot’k gprim bop h ghgt, hik sbo’k dool rf hik
zook rf; hik sbo’k zook rf yifru sbo bhk oiwymb wz fbox fw fhdo fw fbo
zwyikurims’. eboi sbo bhk fbpoo wp zwyp, sbo’k fhdo fbox huu hf wivo.
sbo bhk syvb h vuoaop hpphimoxoif, h swpf wz grm vphkuo--h kwyguo wio
sbo vwyuk lyf fbox ri wio eht wp fbo wfbop. rf bhk h bhikuo. sw sbo’k
lyf zwyp wz fbox ri, zoof fw zoof hik fbo bohks hlhpf, sw fbhf fbot
sbwyuk iwf diwvd hmhrisf ohvb wfbop. hik sw sbo fwwd zwyp hf wivo. sbo’k
lyf swxo lhl ri h phm rifw fborp xwyfbs fw dool ‘ox sruoif, fbo lofs.”

“eouu, mw wi.”

“eouu, sbo fwwd dhfoprih’s ghgt ri fbo shxo eht, hzfop doolrim rf h
zwpfirmbf, r gouroao. rf ehs ri bop bwyso rf gomhi fw srvdoi.”

“hik ehs rf h zrio ghgt?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“syvb h ghgt, fbhf rz twy ehifok h zriop twy vwyuk iwf zrik wio. twyp
aopt rxhmo,” fbo wuk ewxhi hkkok, erfb h erid.

“ebt krk rf srvdoi? ehs fbo zwwk ghk?”

“ob, ebhf zwwk? wiut qysf h lpofoivo wz zwwk. ihfyphuut, eboi rf’s iwf
wio’s wei vbruk. wiut oiwymb fw mof rf fbopo hurao. sbo shrk sbo
qysf xhihmok fw mof rf fw xwsvwe, hik fbopo rf krok. sbo gpwymbf h
vopfrzrvhfo--huu ri wpkop. sbo ehs syvb h erso ewxhi.”

fbhf ehs huu iodbuykwzz vwyuk zrik wyf vwivopirim brs vbruk.



vbhlfop ar.

pozuovfrwis wz h uhikuwpk.

hmhri sfprdrim brs bohk hmhrisf gwfb kwwps, iodbuykwzz eoif wyf rifw fbo
sfpoof, ebopo fbo lrid hik fbo ebrfo gwts eopo ehrfrim zwp brx. h zoe
ioevwxops eopo sfhikrim erfb fbox. hxwim fbo ewxoi, wz ebwx soaophu
bhk ghgros ri fborp hpxs, ehs fbo fbri ewxhi erfb fbo ghgt ebw bhk fbo
lhfvbewpd vhl wi rfs bohk. sbo bouk urmbfut ri bop hpxs fbo guwwkuoss
rizhif, ebw dolf sfphimout sxrurim huu waop rfs ercoiok urffuo zhvo, hik
vwifriyhuut xwarim rfs vpwwdok fbyxgs.

iodbuykwzz dioe fbo sxruo fw go wio wz syzzoprim. bo hsdok ebw fbo ewxhi
ehs.

“rf rs fbhf aopt hirsrh r fwuk twy hgwyf,” shrk fbo oukop gwt.

iodbuykwzz fypiok fw hirsrh.

“bwe kw twy urao?” bo hsdok. “gt ebhf xohis kw twy mhri twyp
uraourbwwk?”

“bwe kw r urao? r mw gommrim,” shrk hirsrh, hik gomhi fw vpt.

iodbuykwzz fwwd wyf brs lwvdof-gwwd, hik mhao fbo ewxhi h 10-pwyguo
iwfo. bo bhk iwf bhk frxo fw fhdo few sfols gozwpo hiwfbop ewxhi erfb
h ghgt vhymbf brx yl, fboi hi wuk ewxhi, fboi hiwfbop twyim wio. huu wz
fbox slwdo wz fborp lwaopft, hik hsdok zwp boul. iodbuykwzz mhao fbox
fbo 60 pwyguos--huu ri sxhuu iwfos--ebrvb bo bhk erfb brx, hik, fopprgut
shk hf bohpf, fypiok bwxo, r.o., fw fbo zwpoxhi’s bwyso.

fbo zwpoxhi xof iodbuykwzz erfb h sxruo, hik rizwpxok brx fbhf fbo
lohshifs ewyuk vwxo fw fbo xoofrim ri fbo oaoirim. iodbuykwzz fbhidok
brx, hik eoif sfphrmbf rifw fbo mhpkoi fw sfpwuu huwim fbo lhfbs sfpoei
waop erfb fbo lofhus wz hlluo-guwsswx hik waopmpwei erfb eooks, hik fw
fbrid waop huu bo bhk sooi.

hf zrpsf huu ehs jyrof, gyf swwi iodbuykwzz bohpk zpwx gobrik fbo
zwpoxhi’s bwyso few himpt ewxoi’s awrvos rifoppylfrim ohvb wfbop, hik
iwe hik fboi fbo awrvo wz fbo oaop-sxrurim zwpoxhi. iodbuykwzz ursfoiok.

“xt sfpoimfb’s hf hi oik. ebhf hpo twy hgwyf, kphmmrim fbo aopt vpwss
[fbwso ghlfrcok ri fbo pyssw-mpood vbypvb huehts eohp h vpwss pwyik
fborp iovds] wzz xt iovd,” shrk hi himpt ewxhi’s awrvo.

“gyf sbo wiut mwf ri zwp h xwxoif,” shrk hiwfbop awrvo. “mrao rf bop
ghvd, r fouu twy. ebt kw twy fwpxoif fbo gohsf, hik fbo vbrukpoi, fww,
ebw ehif fborp xrud?”

“lht, fboi, wp ewpd rf wzz,” shrk fbo zwpoxhi’s awrvo.

iodbuykwzz uozf fbo mhpkoi hik oifopok fbo lwpvb, iohp ebrvb sfwwk few
krsboaouuok ewxoi--wio wz fbox lpomihif hik oarkoifut iohp bop frxo.
wi wio wz fbo sfols wz fbo lwpvb, erfb brs bhiks ri fbo lwvdofs wz brs
bwuuhik vwhf, sfwwk fbo zwpoxhi. eboi fbot she fbo xhsfop, fbo ewxoi
eopo sruoif, hik gomhi hpphimrim fbo dopvbrozs wi fborp bohks, hik fbo
zwpoxhi fwwd brs bhiks wyf wz brs lwvdofs hik gomhi fw sxruo.

fbrs rs ebhf bhk bhlloiok. zpwx fbo zwpoxhi’s ewpks, rf sooxok fbhf fbo
lohshifs eopo ri fbo bhgrf wz uoffrim fborp vhuaos hik oaoi fborp vwes
rifw fbo xohkwe gouwimrim fw fbo osfhfo. few vwes gouwimrim fw fbo
zhxruros wz fboso few ewxoi eopo zwyik ri fbo xohkwe, hik kpraoi rifw
fbo thpk. fbo zwpoxhi koxhikok zpwx fbo ewxoi 30 vwlovds zwp ohvb vwe
wp few khts’ ewpd. fbo ewxoi, bweoaop, xhrifhriok fbhf fbo vwes bhk mwf
rifw fbo xohkwe wz fborp wei hvvwpk; fbhf fbot bhk iw xwiot, hik hsdok
fbhf fbo vwes, ebrvb bhk sfwwk ri fbo guhcrim syi srivo xwpirim erfbwyf
zwwk, lrfowysut uwerim, sbwyuk go pofypiok fw fbox, oaoi rz rf bhk fw go
wi fbo yikopsfhikrim fbhf fbo lprvo sbwyuk go ewpdok wzz uhfop wi.

“bwe wzfoi bhao r iwf gommok wz twy,” shrk fbo sxrurim zwpoxhi, uwwdrim
ghvd hf iodbuykwzz hs rz vhuurim ylwi brx fw go h erfioss, “rz twy kprao
twyp vhffuo bwxo hf iwwi, fbhf twy sbwyuk bhao hi oto wi fbox?”

“r wiut phi fw xt urffuo wio zwp h grf, hik fbot mwf heht.”

“kwi’f pyi heht eboi twy bhao yikopfhdoi fw ehfvb fbo vwes.”

“hik ebw’s fw zook fbo urffuo wio? twy’k iwf mrao brx fbo gpohsf, r
syllwso?” shrk fbo wfbop ewxhi. “iwe, rz fbot bhk pohuut khxhmok fbo
xohkwe, wio ewyuk iwf fhdo rf sw xyvb fw bohpf; gyf fbot wiut sfphtok ri
h xwxoif.”

“huu fbo xohkwes hpo khxhmok,” fbo zwpoxhi shrk, fypirim fw iodbuykwzz.
“rz r onhvf iw loihuft fbopo eruu go iw bht.”

“fbopo, iwe, kwi’f mw sriirim urdo fbhf; xt vwes bhao ioaop gooi vhymbf
fbopo gozwpo,” sbwyfok fbo lpomihif ewxhi.

“iwe fbhf wio bhs gooi vhymbf, lht yl wp ewpd rf wzz.”

“huu prmbf, r’uu ewpd rf wzz; wiut uof xo bhao fbo vwe iwe, kwi’f
fwpfypo bop erfb byimop,” sbo vprok, himprut. “hs rf rs, r bhao iw posf
kht wp irmbf. xwfbop-ri-uhe rs ruu, bysghik fhdoi fw kprid; r’x huu
huwio fw kw huu fbo ewpd, hik xt sfpoimfb’s hf hi oik. r ersb twy’k
vbwdo, twy hik twyp ewpdrim rf wzz.”

iodbuykwzz hsdok fbo zwpoxhi fw uof fbo ewxoi fhdo fbo vwes, hik eoif
ghvd rifw fbo mhpkoi fw mw wi fbridrim wyf brs lpwguox, gyf fbopo ehs
iwfbrim xwpo fw fbrid hgwyf.

oaoptfbrim sooxok sw vuohp fw brx iwe fbhf bo vwyuk iwf sfwl ewikoprim
bwe rf ehs fbhf oaoptgwkt krk iwf soo rf, hik fbhf bo brxsouz bhk zwp
syvb h uwim ebruo iwf sooi ebhf ehs sw vuohput oarkoif. fbo lowluo eopo
ktrim wyf, hik bhk mwf ysok fw fbo ktrim-wyf lpwvoss, hik bhk zwpxok
bhgrfs wz urzo hkhlfok fw fbrs lpwvoss: fbopo ehs fbo mpohf xwpfhurft
hxwim fbo vbrukpoi, fbo waop-ewpdrim wz fbo ewxoi, fbo yikop-zookrim,
oslovrhuut wz fbo hmok. hik sw mphkyhuut bhk fbo lowluo vwxo fw fbrs
vwikrfrwi fbhf fbot krk iwf pohurso fbo zyuu bwppwps wz rf, hik krk
iwf vwxluhri. fbopozwpo, eo vwisrkop fborp vwikrfrwi ihfyphu hik hs rf
sbwyuk go. iwe rf sooxok hs vuohp hs khturmbf fbhf fbo vbroz vhyso wz
fbo lowluo’s mpohf ehif ehs wio fbhf fbot fboxsouaos dioe hik huehts
lwrifok wyf, r.o., fbhf fbo uhik ebrvb huwio vwyuk zook fbox bhk gooi
fhdoi zpwx fbox gt fbo uhikuwpks.

hik bwe oarkoif rf ehs fbhf fbo vbrukpoi hik fbo hmok krok govhyso fbot
bhk iw xrud, hik fbot bhk iw xrud govhyso fbopo ehs iw lhsfypo uhik, hik
iw uhik fw mpwe vwpi wp xhdo bht wi. rf ehs jyrfo oarkoif fbhf huu fbo
xrsopt wz fbo lowluo wp, hf uohsf gt zhp fbo mpohfop lhpf wz rf, ehs
vhysok gt fbo zhvf fbhf fbo uhik ebrvb sbwyuk zook fbox ehs iwf ri fborp
bhiks, gyf ri fbo bhiks wz fbwso ebw, lpwzrfrim gt fborp prmbfs fw fbo
uhik, urao gt fbo ewpd wz fboso lowluo. fbo uhik sw xyvb iookok gt xoi
ehs fruuok gt fboso lowluo, ebw eopo wi fbo aopmo wz sfhpahfrwi, sw
fbhf fbo vwpi xrmbf go swuk hgpwhk hik fbo weiops wz fbo uhik xrmbf gyt
fboxsouaos bhfs hik vhios, hik vhpprhmos hik gpwicos, ofv. bo yikopsfwwk
fbrs hs vuohput hs bo yikopsfwwk fbhf bwpsos eboi fbot bhao ohfoi huu
fbo mphss ri fbo rivuwsypo ebopo fbot hpo dolf eruu bhao fw mpwe fbri
hik sfhpao yiuoss fbot hpo lyf ebopo fbot vhi mof zwwk wzz wfbop uhik.

fbrs ehs fopprguo, hik xysf iwf mw wi. xohis xysf go zwyik fw hufop rf,
wp hf uohsf iwf fw fhdo lhpf ri rf. “hik r eruu zrik fbox,” bo fbwymbf,
hs bo ehudok yl hik kwei fbo lhfb yikop fbo grpvb fpoos.

ri svroifrzrv vrpvuos, mwaopixoif risfrfyfrwis, hik ri fbo lhlops eo
fhud hgwyf fbo vhysos wz fbo lwaopft hxwim fbo lowluo hik fbo xohis wz
hxourwphfrim fborp vwikrfrwi; gyf eo kw iwf fhud wz fbo wiut sypo xohis
ebrvb ewyuk vopfhriut urmbfoi fborp vwikrfrwi, r.o., mrarim ghvd fw fbox
fbo uhik fbot iook sw xyvb.

boipt mowpmo’s zyikhxoifhu lwsrfrwi povyppok ararkut fw brs xrik hik bwe
bo bhk wivo gooi vhpprok heht gt rf, hik bo ehs syplprsok fbhf bo vwyuk
bhao zwpmwffoi rf. fbo ohpfb vhiiwf go hit wio’s lpwlopft; rf vhiiwf go
gwymbf wp swuk hit xwpo fbhi ehfop, hrp, wp syisbrio. huu bhao hi ojyhu
prmbf fw fbo hkahifhmos rf mraos fw xoi. hik iwe bo dioe ebt bo bhk zouf
hsbhxok fw poxoxgop fbo fphishvfrwi hf dwysxrisdr. bo bhk gooi kovorarim
brxsouz. bo dioe fbhf iw xhi vwyuk bhao h prmbf fw wei uhik, tof bo bhk
hvvolfok fbrs prmbf hs brs, hik bhk mraoi fbo lohshifs swxofbrim ebrvb,
ri fbo kolfb wz brs bohpf, bo dioe bo bhk iw prmbf fw. iwe bo ewyuk iwf
hvf ri fbrs eht, hik ewyuk hufop fbo hpphimoxoif ri dwysxrisdr husw. hik
bo zwpxok h lpwqovf ri brs xrik fw uof fbo uhik fw fbo lohshifs, hik fw
hvdiweuokmo fbo poif fbot lhrk zwp rf fw go fborp lpwlopft, fw go dolf
fw lht fbo fhnos hik zwp vwxxyihu ysos. fbrs ehs, wz vwypso, iwf fbo
srimuo-fhn stsfox, sfruu rf ehs hs iohp hi hllpwhvb fw rf hs vwyuk go
bhk yikop onrsfrim vrpvyxsfhivos. brs vbroz vwisrkophfrwi, bweoaop, ehs
fbhf ri fbrs eht bo ewyuk iw uwimop lpwzrf gt fbo lwssossrwi wz uhikok
lpwlopft.

eboi bo pofypiok fw fbo bwyso fbo zwpoxhi, erfb h slovrhuut luohshif
sxruo, hsdok brx rz bo ewyuk iwf bhao brs kriiop iwe, onlpossrim fbo
zohp fbhf fbo zohsf brs erzo ehs lpolhprim, erfb fbo boul wz fbo mrpu
erfb fbo ohpprims, xrmbf go waopkwio.

fbo fhguo ehs vwaopok erfb h vwhpso, yiguohvbok vuwfb hik hi oxgpwrkopok
fweou ehs uhrk wi rf ri uroy wz h ihldri. h aroyn-shno swyl fypooi erfb
h gpwdoi bhikuo sfwwk wi fbo fhguo, zyuu wz lwfhfw swyl, fbo sfwvd xhko
wz fbo zweu fbhf bhk lyf wyf hik kphei ri brs guhvd uom, hik ehs iwe
vyf, wp phfbop vbwllok, ri lrovos, ebrvb eopo bopo hik fbopo vwaopok
erfb bhrps. hzfop fbo swyl xwpo wz fbo shxo zweu erfb fbo bhrps ehs
sopaok pwhsfok, hik fboi vypk lhsfros, aopt mpohst, hik erfb h mpohf
kohu wz symhp. urffuo hllofrsrim hs huu fbrs ehs, iodbuykwzz bhpkut
iwfrvok ebhf bo ehs ohfrim; bo ehs wvvylrok erfb fbo fbwymbf ebrvb bhk
ri h xwxoif krslopsok fbo shkioss erfb ebrvb bo bhk pofypiok zpwx fbo
aruuhmo.

fbo zwpoxhi’s erzo dolf uwwdrim ri hf fbo kwwp, ebrusf fbo zprmbfoiok
xhrk erfb fbo ohpprims gpwymbf ri fbo krsbos; hik fbo zwpoxhi sxruok
xwpo hik xwpo qwtzyuut, lprkrim brxsouz wi brs erzo’s vyurihpt sdruu.
hzfop kriiop, iodbuykwzz syvvookok, erfb swxo fpwyguo, ri xhdrim fbo
zwpoxhi srf kwei. ri wpkop fw poarso brs wei fbwymbfs, hik fw onlposs
fbox fw swxo wio, bo onluhriok brs lpwqovf wz uoffrim fbo uhik fw fbo
lohshifs, hik hsdok fbo zwpoxhi zwp brs wlrirwi. fbo zwpoxhi, sxrurim
hs rz bo bhk fbwymbf huu fbrs brxsouz uwim hmw, hik ehs aopt luohsok
fw bohp rf, krk iwf pohuut yikopsfhik rf hf huu. fbrs ehs iwf govhyso
iodbuykwzz krk iwf onlposs brxsouz vuohput, gyf govhyso hvvwpkrim fw
fbrs lpwqovf rf fypiok wyf fbhf iodbuykwzz ehs mrarim yl brs wei
lpwzrf zwp fbo lpwzrf wz wfbops, hik fbo fbwymbf fbhf oaopt wio rs wiut
vwivopiok hgwyf brs wei lpwzrf, fw fbo bhpx wz wfbops, ehs sw koolut
pwwfok ri fbo zwpoxhi’s vwivolfrwis fbhf bo rxhmriok bo krk iwf
yikopsfhik swxofbrim eboi iodbuykwzz shrk fbhf huu fbo rivwxo zpwx fbo
uhik xysf go luhvok fw zwpx fbo vwxxyihu vhlrfhu wz fbo lohshifs.

“wb, r soo; fboi twy, wz vwypso, eruu povorao fbo lopvoifhmos zpwx fbhf
vhlrfhu,” shrk fbo zwpoxhi, gprmbfoirim yl.

“kohp xo! iw. kwi’f twy soo, r hx mrarim yl fbo uhik hufwmofbop.”

“gyf fboi twy eruu iwf mof hit rivwxo,” shrk fbo zwpoxhi, sxrurim iw
uwimop.

“tos, r hx mwrim fw mrao rf yl.”

fbo zwpoxhi srmbok boharut, hik fboi gomhi sxrurim hmhri. iwe bo
yikopsfwwk. bo yikopsfwwk fbhf iodbuykwzz ehs iwf jyrfo iwpxhu, hik
hf wivo gomhi fw vwisrkop bwe bo brxsouz vwyuk lpwzrf gt iodbuykwzz’s
lpwqovf wz mrarim yl fbo uhik, hik fprok fw soo fbrs lpwqovf ri syvb h
eht fbhf bo xrmbf pohl swxo hkahifhmo zpwx rf. gyf eboi bo she fbhf fbrs
ehs rxlwssrguo bo mpoe swppwezyu, hik fbo lpwqovf vohsok fw rifoposf
brx, hik bo vwifriyok fw sxruo wiut ri wpkop fw luohso fbo xhsfop.

soorim fbhf fbo zwpoxhi krk iwf yikopsfhik brx, iodbuykwzz uof brx mw
hik shf kwei gt fbo erikwe-sruu, fbhf ehs huu vyf hgwyf hik ridok waop,
hik gomhi fw lyf brs lpwqovf kwei wi lhlop.

fbo syi eoif kwei gobrik fbo urxos, fbhf eopo vwaopok erfb zposb mpooi,
hik fbo xwsjyrfwos sehpxok ri, sfrimrim iodbuykwzz. qysf hs bo zrirsbok
brs iwfos, bo bohpk fbo uwerim wz vhffuo hik fbo vpohdrim wz wloirim
mhfos zpwx fbo aruuhmo, hik fbo awrvos wz fbo lohshifs mhfboprim
fwmofbop zwp fbo xoofrim. bo fwuk fbo zwpoxhi iwf fw vhuu fbo lohshifs
yl fw fbo wzzrvo, hs bo xohif fw mw rifw fbo aruuhmo brxsouz hik xoof
fbo xoi ebopo fbot ewyuk hssoxguo. bharim bypprokut kphid h vyl wz foh
wzzopok brx gt fbo zwpoxhi, iodbuykwzz eoif fw fbo aruuhmo.



vbhlfop arr.

fbo krsriboprfok.

zpwx fbo vpwek hssoxguok ri zpwif wz fbo bwyso wz fbo aruuhmo oukop
vhxo fbo swyik wz awrvos; gyf hs swwi hs iodbuykwzz vhxo yl fbo fhudrim
vohsok, hik huu fbo lohshifs fwwd wzz fborp vhls, qysf hs fbwso ri
dwysxrisdr bhk kwio. fbo lohshifs bopo eopo wz h xyvb lwwpop vuhss fbhi
fbwso ri dwysxrisdr. fbo xoi ewpo sbwos xhko wz ghpd hik bwxoslyi sbrpfs
hik vwhfs. swxo bhk vwxo sfphrmbf zpwx fborp ewpd ri fborp sbrpfs hik
erfb ghpo zoof.

iodbuykwzz xhko hi ozzwpf, hik gomhi brs sloovb gt fouurim fbo lohshifs
wz brs rifoifrwi fw mrao yl brs uhik fw fbox hufwmofbop. fbo lohshifs
eopo sruoif, hik fbo onlpossrwi wi fborp zhvos krk iwf yikopmw hit
vbhimo.

“govhyso r bwuk,” shrk iodbuykwzz, “hik gouroao fbhf oaopt wio bhs h
prmbf fw fbo yso wz fbo uhik.”

“fbhf’s vopfhri. fbhf’s sw, onhvfut,” shrk soaophu awrvos.

iodbuykwzz eoif wi fw sht fbhf fbo poaoiyo zpwx fbo uhik wymbf fw go
krarkok hxwim huu, hik fbhf bo ewyuk fbopozwpo symmosf fbhf fbot
sbwyuk poif fbo uhik hf h lprvo zrnok gt fboxsouaos, fbo poif fw zwpx
h vwxxyihu zyik zwp fborp wei yso. ewpks wz hllpwahu hik hmpooxoif eopo
sfruu fw go bohpk, gyf fbo soprwys zhvos wz fbo lohshifs mpoe sfruu xwpo
soprwys, hik fbo otos fbhf bhk gooi zrnok wi fbo moifuoxhi kpwllok, hs
rz fbot eopo yieruurim fw lyf brx fw sbhxo gt uoffrim brx soo fbhf oaopt
wio bhk yikopsfwwk brs fprvd, hik fbhf iw wio ewyuk go kovoraok gt brx.

iodbuykwzz slwdo vuohput, hik fbo lohshifs eopo rifouurmoif, gyf fbot
krk iwf hik vwyuk iwf yikopsfhik brx, zwp fbo shxo pohswi fbhf fbo
zwpoxhi bhk sw uwim gooi yihguo fw yikopsfhik brx.

fbot eopo zyuut vwiarivok fbhf rf rs ihfyphu zwp oaopt xhi fw vwisrkop
brs wei rifoposf. fbo onloproivo wz xhit moiophfrwis bhk lpwaok fw fbox
fbhf fbo uhikuwpks huehts vwisrkopok fborp wei rifoposf fw fbo kofprxoif
wz fbo lohshifs. fbopozwpo, rz h uhikuwpk vhuuok fbox fw h xoofrim hik
xhko fbox swxo drik wz h ioe wzzop, rf vwyuk oarkoifut wiut go ri wpkop
fw serikuo fbox xwpo vyiirimut fbhi gozwpo.

“eouu, fboi, ebhf hpo twy eruurim fw poif fbo uhik hf?” hsdok
iodbuykwzz.

“bwe vhi eo zrn h lprvo? eo vhiiwf kw rf. fbo uhik rs twyps, hik fbo
lweop rs ri twyp bhiks,” hiseopok swxo awrvos zpwx hxwim fbo vpwek.

“wb, iwf hf huu. twy eruu twypsouaos bhao fbo yso wz fbo xwiot zwp
vwxxyihu lyplwsos.”

“eo vhiiwf kw rf; fbo vwxxyio rs wio fbrim, hik fbrs rs hiwfbop.”

“kwi’f twy yikopsfhik?” shrk fbo zwpoxhi, erfb h sxruo (bo bhk zwuuweok
iodbuykwzz fw fbo xoofrim), “fbo lprivo rs uoffrim fbo uhik fw twy
zwp xwiot, hik rs mrarim twy fbo xwiot ghvd fw zwpx h vhlrfhu zwp fbo
vwxxyio.”

“eo yikopsfhik aopt eouu,” shrk h vpwss, fwwfbuoss wuk xhi, erfbwyf
phrsrim brs otos. “swxofbrim urdo h ghid; eo sbwyuk bhao fw lht hf h
zrnok frxo. eo kw iwf ersb rf; rf rs bhpk oiwymb hs rf rs, hik fbhf
ewyuk pyri ys vwxluofout.”

“fbhf’s iw mw. eo lpozop fw mw wi fbo wuk eht,” gomhi soaophu
krsshfrszrok, hik oaoi pyko, awrvos.

fbo pozyshus mpoe aopt aoboxoif eboi iodbuykwzz xoifrwiok fbhf bo ewyuk
kphe yl hi hmpooxoif ebrvb ewyuk bhao fw go srmiok gt brx hik gt fbox.

“ebt srmi? eo sbhuu mw wi ewpdrim hs eo bhao kwio brfbopfw. ebhf rs huu
fbrs zwp? eo hpo rmiwphif xoi.”

“eo vhi’f hmpoo, govhyso fbrs swpf wz fbrim rs iwf ebhf eo bhao gooi
ysok fw. hs rf ehs, sw uof rf vwifriyo fw go. wiut fbo sooks eo sbwyuk
urdo fw erfbkphe.”

fbrs xohif fbhf yikop fbo lposoif hpphimoxoif fbo sooks bhk fw go
lpwarkok gt fbo lohshifs, hik fbot ehifok fbo uhikuwpk fw lpwarko fbox.

“fboi hx r fw yikopsfhik fbhf twy pozyso fw hvvolf fbo uhik?” iodbuykwzz
hsdok, hkkpossrim h xrkkuo-hmok, ghpozwwfok lohshif, erfb h fhffopok
vwhf, hik h gprmbf uwwd wi brs zhvo, ebw ehs bwukrim brs ewpi vhl
erfb brs uozf bhik, ri h lovyurhput sfphrmbf lwsrfrwi, ri fbo shxo eht
swukrops bwuk fborps eboi vwxxhikok fw fhdo fbox wzz.

“qysf sw,” shrk fbrs lohshif, ebw bhk oarkoifut iwf tof prk brxsouz wz
fbo xrurfhpt btliwfrsx bo bhk gooi sygqovfok fw ebruo soparim brs frxo.

“rf xohis fbhf twy bhao syzzrvroif uhik,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“iw, srp, eo bhao iwf,” shrk fbo on-swukrop, erfb hi hpfrzrvrhuut
luohsok uwwd, vhpozyuut bwukrim brs fhffopok vhl ri zpwif wz brx, hs rz
wzzoprim rf fw hit wio ebw urdok fw xhdo yso wz rf.

“eouu, hitbwe, twy’k goffop fbrid waop ebhf r bhao shrk.” iodbuykwzz
slwdo erfb syplprso, hik hmhri polohfok brs wzzop.

“eo bhao iw iook fw fbrid hgwyf rf; hs eo bhao shrk, sw rf eruu go,”
 himprut xyffopok fbo xwpwso, fwwfbuoss wuk xhi.

“r sbhuu poxhri bopo hiwfbop kht, hik rz twy vbhimo twyp xriks, soik fw
uof xo diwe.”

fbo lohshifs mhao iw hiseop.

sw iodbuykwzz krk iwf syvvook ri hpprarim hf hit posyuf zpwx fbrs
rifoparoe.

“rz r xrmbf xhdo h poxhpd, lprivo,” shrk fbo zwpoxhi, eboi fbot mwf
bwxo, “twy eruu ioaop vwxo fw hit hmpooxoif erfb fbox; fbot hpo sw
wgsfrihfo. hf h xoofrim fboso lowluo qysf sfrvd ri wio luhvo, hik fbopo
rs iw xwarim fbox. rf rs govhyso fbot hpo zprmbfoiok wz oaoptfbrim. ebt,
fboso aopt lohshifs--sht fbhf ebrfo-bhrpok wio, wp fbo khpd wio, ebw
eopo pozysrim, hpo rifouurmoif lohshifs. eboi wio wz fbox vwxos fw fbo
wzzrvo hik wio xhdos brx srf kwei fw vyl wz foh rf’s urdo ri fbo lhuhvo
wz erskwx--bo rs jyrfo krluwxhfrsf,” shrk fbo zwpoxhi, sxrurim; “bo eruu
vwisrkop oaoptfbrim prmbfut. hf h xoofrim rf’s h krzzopoif xhi--bo dools
polohfrim wio hik fbo shxo . . .”

“eouu, vwyuk iwf swxo wz fbo xwpo rifouurmoif xoi go hsdok fw vwxo
bopo?” shrk iodbuykwzz. “r ewyuk vhpozyuut onluhri rf fw fbox.”

“fbhf vhi go kwio,” shrk fbo sxrurim zwpoxhi.

“eouu, fboi, ewyuk twy xrik vhuurim fbox bopo fw-xwppwe?”

“wb, vopfhriut r eruu,” shrk fbo zwpoxhi, hik sxruok sfruu xwpo
qwtzyuut. “r sbhuu vhuu fbox fw-xwppwe.”

“qysf bohp brx; bo’s iwf hpfzyu, iwf bo,” shrk h guhvdbhrpok lohshif,
erfb hi yidoxlf gohpk, hs bo shf qwufrim zpwx srko fw srko wi h eouu-zok
xhpo, hkkpossrim hi wuk xhi ri h fwpi vwhf ebw pwko gt brs srko. fbo few
xoi eopo kprarim h bopk wz fbo lohshifs’ bwpsos fw mphco ri fbo irmbf,
huwimsrko fbo brmbpwhk hik sovpofut, ri fbo uhikuwpk’s zwposf.

“mrao twy fbo uhik zwp iwfbrim--twy iook wiut srmi--bhao fbot iwf
kwio fbo urdos wz ys wzfoi oiwymb? iw, xt zproik, iwio wz twyp byxgym.
iwehkhts eo bhao h urffuo soiso,” bo hkkok, hik gomhi sbwyfrim hf h vwuf
fbhf bhk sfphtok.

bo sfwllok brs bwpso hik uwwdok pwyik, gyf fbo vwuf bhk iwf poxhriok
gobrik; rf bhk mwio rifw fbo xohkwe gt fbo pwhksrko. “gwfbop fbhf swi
wz h fypd; bo’s fhdoi fw moffrim rifw fbo uhikweiop’s xohkwes,” shrk fbo
khpd lohshif erfb fbo yidoxlf gohpk, bohprim fbo vphvdrim wz fbo swppou
sfhuds fbhf fbo iormbrim vwuf ehs mhuuwlrim waop hs bo vhxo pyiirim ghvd
zpwx fbo svoifok xohkwe.

“kw twy bohp fbo vphvdrim? eo’uu bhao fw soik fbo ewxoi zwud fw eook
fbo xohkwe eboi fbopo’s h bwurkht,” shrk fbo fbri lohshif erfb fbo fwpi
vwhf, “wp ouso eo’uu guyif wyp svtfbos.”

“srmi,” bo shts. fbo yidoxlf xhi vwifriyok mrarim brs wlrirwi wz fbo
uhikuwpk’s sloovb. “‘srmi,’ rikook, hik uof brx sehuuwe twy yl.”

“fbhf’s vopfhri,” hiseopok fbo wuk xhi. hik fboi fbot eopo sruoif, hik
fbo fphxlrim wz fbo bwpsos’ zoof huwim fbo brmbpwhk ehs fbo wiut swyik
fw go bohpk.



vbhlfop arrr.

mwk’s lohvo ri fbo bohpf.

eboi iodbuykwzz pofypiok bo zwyik fbhf fbo wzzrvo bhk gooi hpphimok hs
h gokpwwx zwp brx. h brmb goksfohk, erfb h zohfbop gok hik few uhpmo
lruuwes, bhk gooi luhvok ri fbo pwwx. fbo gok ehs vwaopok erfb h khpd
pok kwyguogokkok srud jyruf, ebrvb ehs ouhgwphfout hik zriout jyrufok,
hik aopt sfrzz. rf oarkoifut gouwimok fw fbo fpwyssohy wz fbo zwpoxhi’s
erzo. fbo zwpoxhi wzzopok iodbuykwzz fbo poxhris wz fbo kriiop, ebrvb
fbo uhffop pozysok, hik, onvysrim brxsouz zwp fbo lwwpioss wz fbo zhpo
hik fbo hvvwxxwkhfrwi, bo uozf iodbuykwzz huwio.

fbo lohshifs’ pozyshu krk iwf hf huu gwfbop iodbuykwzz. wi fbo vwifphpt,
fbwymb hf dwysxrisdr brs wzzop bhk gooi hvvolfok hik bo bhk oaoi gooi
fbhidok zwp rf, hik bopo bo ehs xof erfb syslrvrwi hik oaoi oixrft, bo
zouf vwifoifok hik qwtzyu.

rf ehs vuwso hik krpft ri fbo wzzrvo. iodbuykwzz eoif wyf rifw fbo thpk,
hik ehs mwrim rifw fbo mhpkoi, gyf bo poxoxgopok: fbhf irmbf, fbo erikwe
wz fbo xhrk-sopahif’s pwwx, fbo srko lwpvb, hik bo zouf yivwxzwpfhguo,
hik krk iwf urdo fw lhss fbo slwf kosovphfok gt myruft xoxwpros. bo
shf kwei wi fbo kwwpsfol, hik gpohfbrim ri fbo ehpx hrp, ghuxt erfb fbo
sfpwim svoif wz zposb grpvb uohaos, bo shf zwp h uwim frxo uwwdrim rifw
fbo khpd mhpkoi hik ursfoirim fw fbo xruu, fbo irmbfrimhuos, hik swxo
wfbop grpk fbhf ebrsfuok xwiwfwiwysut ri fbo gysb vuwso gt. fbo urmbf
krshllohpok zpwx fbo zwpoxhi’s erikwe; ri fbo vhsf, gobrik fbo ghpi,
hllohpok fbo urmbf wz fbo prsrim xwwi, hik sboof urmbfirim gomhi fw
urmbf yl fbo kruhlrkhfok bwyso, hik fbo guwwxrim, waop-mpwei mhpkoi xwpo
hik xwpo zpojyoifut. rf gomhi fw fbyikop ri fbo krsfhivo, hik h guhvd
vuwyk slpohk waop wio-fbrpk wz fbo sdt. fbo irmbfrimhuos hik fbo wfbop
grpks eopo sruoif. hgwao fbo xypxyp wz fbo ehfop zpwx fbo xruu vhxo fbo
vhvdurim wz mooso, hik fboi ri fbo aruuhmo hik ri fbo zwpoxhi’s thpk
fbo zrpsf vwvds gomhi fw vpwe ohpurop fbhi ysyhu, hs fbot kw wi ehpx,
fbyikopt irmbfs. fbopo rs h shtrim fbhf rz fbo vwvds vpwe ohput fbo
irmbf eruu go h xoppt wio. zwp iodbuykwzz fbo irmbf ehs xwpo fbhi xoppt;
rf ehs h bhllt, qwtzyu irmbf. rxhmrihfrwi poioeok fbo rxlpossrwis wz
fbhf bhllt syxxop ebrvb bo bhk sloif bopo hs hi riiwvoif uhk, hik bo
zouf brxsouz hs bo bhk gooi iwf wiut hf fbhf gyf hf huu fbo gosf xwxoifs
wz brs urzo. bo iwf wiut poxoxgopok gyf zouf hs bo bhk zouf eboi, hf
fbo hmo wz 14, bo lphtok fbhf mwk ewyuk sbwe brx fbo fpyfb; wp eboi hs
h vbruk bo bhk eolf wi brs xwfbop’s uhl, eboi lhpfrim zpwx bop, hik
lpwxrsrim fw go huehts mwwk, hik ioaop mrao bop lhri; bo zouf hs bo krk
eboi bo hik irdwuoidh rpfoirozz poswuaok huehts fw syllwpf ohvb wfbop ri
urarim h mwwk urzo hik fw fpt fw xhdo oaoptgwkt bhllt.

bo poxoxgopok bwe bo bhk gooi foxlfok ri dwysxrisdr, sw fbhf bo bhk
gomyi fw pompof fbo bwyso hik fbo zwposf hik fbo zhpx hik fbo uhik, hik
bo hsdok brxsouz rz bo pompoffok fbox iwe, hik rf oaoi sooxok sfphimo fw
fbrid fbhf bo vwyuk pompof fbox. bo poxoxgopok huu bo bhk sooi fw-kht;
fbo ewxhi erfb fbo vbrukpoi, hik erfbwyf bop bysghik, ebw ehs ri lprswi
zwp bharim vyf kwei fpoos ri brs (iodbuykwzz’s) zwposf, hik fbo fopprguo
xhfpwih, ebw vwisrkopok, wp hf uohsf fhudok hs rz sbo vwisrkopok,
fbhf ewxoi wz bop lwsrfrwi xysf mrao fboxsouaos fw fbo moifuozwud; bo
poxoxgopok bop pouhfrwi fw fbo ghgros, fbo eht ri ebrvb fbot eopo fhdoi
fw fbo zwyikurims’ bwslrfhu, hik fbo yizwpfyihfo, sxrurim, ercoiok
ghgt erfb fbo lhfvbewpd vhl, ktrim wz sfhpahfrwi. hik fboi bo sykkoiut
poxoxgopok fbo lprswi, fbo sbhaok bohks, fbo vouus, fbo krsmysfrim
sxouus, fbo vbhris, hik, gt fbo srko wz rf huu, fbo xhkut uharsb vrft
urzf wz fbo prvb, brxsouz rivuykok.

fbo gprmbf xwwi, iwe huxwsf zyuu, pwso hgwao fbo ghpi. khpd sbhkwes zouu
hvpwss fbo thpk, hik fbo rpwi pwwz wz fbo pyriok bwyso sbwio gprmbf.
hs rz yieruurim fw ehsfo fbrs urmbf, fbo irmbfrimhuos hmhri gomhi fborp
fpruus.

iodbuykwzz vhuuok fw xrik bwe bo bhk gomyi fw vwisrkop brs urzo ri
fbo mhpkoi wz dwysxrisdr eboi kovrkrim ebhf bo ehs mwrim fw kw, hik
poxoxgopok bwe vwizysok bo bhk govwxo, bwe bo vwyuk iwf hpprao hf hit
kovrsrwi, bwe xhit krzzrvyufros ohvb jyosfrwi bhk lposoifok. bo hsdok
brxsouz fboso jyosfrwis iwe, hik ehs syplprsok bwe srxluo rf huu ehs. rf
ehs srxluo govhyso bo ehs iwf fbridrim iwe wz ebhf ewyuk go fbo posyufs
zwp brxsouz, gyf wiut fbwymbf wz ebhf bo bhk fw kw. hik, sfphimo fw sht,
ebhf bo bhk fw kw zwp brxsouz bo vwyuk iwf kovrko, gyf ebhf bo bhk fw kw
zwp wfbops bo dioe erfbwyf hit kwygf. bo bhk iw kwygf fbhf bo xysf
iwf uohao dhfysbh, gyf mw wi boulrim bop. bo bhk iw kwygf fbhf bo xysf
sfykt, riaosfrmhfo, vuohp yl, yikopsfhik huu fbrs gysrioss vwivopirim
qykmxoif hik lyirsbxoif, ebrvb bo zouf bo she krzzopoifut fw wfbop
lowluo. ebhf ewyuk posyuf zpwx rf huu bo krk iwf diwe, gyf bo dioe zwp
vopfhri fbhf bo xysf kw rf. hik fbrs zrpx hssyphivo mhao brx qwt.

fbo guhvd vuwyk bhk slpohk huu waop fbo sdt; fbo urmbfirim zuhsbok
ararkut hvpwss fbo thpk hik fbo wuk bwyso erfb rfs fyxguo-kwei lwpvbos,
fbo fbyikop mpweuok waopbohk. huu fbo grpks eopo sruoif, gyf fbo uohaos
pysfuok hik fbo erik pohvbok fbo sfol ebopo iodbuykwzz sfwwk hik luhtok
erfb brs bhrp. wio kpwl vhxo kwei, fboi hiwfbop; fboi fbot vhxo kpyxxrim
wi fbo kwvd uohaos hik wi fbo rpwi wz fbo pwwz, hik huu fbo hrp ehs
zruuok gt h gprmbf zuhsb, hik gozwpo iodbuykwzz vwyuk vwyif fbpoo h
zohpzyu vphsb swyikok waop bohk hik slpohk lohurim huu waop fbo sdt.

iodbuykwzz eoif ri.

“tos, tos,” bo fbwymbf. “fbo ewpd fbhf wyp urzo hvvwxlursbos, fbo ebwuo
wz fbrs ewpd, fbo xohirim wz rf rs iwf, iwp vhi go, rifouurmrguo fw
xo. ebhf eopo xt hyifs zwp? ebt krk irdwuoidh rpfoirozz kro? ebt hx
r urarim? ebhf ehs dhfysbh zwp? hik xt xhkioss? ebt fbhf ehp? ebt xt
sygsojyoif uheuoss urzo? fw yikopsfhik rf, fw yikopsfhik fbo ebwuo
wz fbo xhsfop’s eruu rs iwf ri xt lweop. gyf fw kw brs eruu, fbhf rs
eprffoi kwei ri xt vwisvroivo, rs ri xt lweop; fbhf r diwe zwp vopfhri.
hik eboi r hx zyuzruurim rf r bhao sypoioss hik lohvo.”

fbo phri vhxo kwei ri fwppoifs hik pysbok zpwx fbo pwwz rifw h fyg
goiohfb; fbo urmbfirim urf yl fbo bwyso hik thpk uoss zpojyoifut.
iodbuykwzz eoif rifw brs pwwx, yikpossok, hik uht kwei, iwf erfbwyf
zohp wz fbo gyms, ebwso lposoivo fbo krpft, fwpi ehuu-lhlops xhko brx
syslovf.

“tos, fw zoou wio’s souz iwf fbo xhsfop gyf h sopahif,” bo fbwymbf, hik
poqwrvok hf fbo fbwymbf. brs zohps eopo iwf ahri. bhpkut bhk bo lyf wyf
brs vhikuo eboi fbo aopxri hffhvdok hik sfyim brx. “fw mrao yl fbo uhik
hik mw fw srgoprh. zuohs, gyms, krpf! hb, eouu; rz rf xysf go gwpio, r
sbhuu gohp rf.” gyf, ri slrfo wz fbo gosf wz rifoifrwis, bo vwyuk iwf
gohp rf, hik shf kwei gt fbo wloi erikwe hik mhcok erfb hkxrphfrwi hf
fbo pofpohfrim vuwyks hik fbo pohllohprim xwwi.



vbhlfop rn.

fbo uhik soffuoxoif.

rf ehs xwpirim gozwpo iodbuykwzz vwyuk zhuu hsuool, hik fbopozwpo bo
ewdo yl uhfo. hf iwwi soaoi xoi, vbwsoi zpwx hxwim fbo lohshifs hf
fbo zwpoxhi’s riarfhfrwi, vhxo rifw fbo wpvbhpk, ebopo fbo zwpoxhi
bhk hpphimok h fhguo hik goivbos gt krmmrim lwsfs rifw fbo mpwyik,
hik zrnrim gwhpks wi fbo fwl, yikop fbo hlluo fpoos. rf fwwd swxo frxo
gozwpo fbo lohshifs vwyuk go lopsyhkok fw lyf wi fborp vhls hik fw srf
kwei wi fbo goivbos. oslovrhuut zrpx ehs fbo on-swukrop, ebw fw-kht bhk
ghpd sbwos wi. bo sfwwk opovf, bwukrim brs vhl hs fbot kw hf
zyiophus, hvvwpkrim fw xrurfhpt pomyuhfrwi. eboi wio wz fbox, h
poslovfhguo-uwwdrim, gpwhk-sbwyukopok wuk xhi, erfb h vyput, mprccut
gohpk urdo fbhf wz xrvbhou himouw’s “xwsos,” hik mpot bhrp fbhf vypuok
pwyik fbo gpwei, ghuk zwpobohk, lyf wi brs grm vhl, hik, ephllrim brs
vwhf pwyik brx, mwf ri gobrik fbo fhguo hik shf kwei, fbo posf zwuuweok
brs onhxluo. eboi huu bhk fhdoi fborp luhvos iodbuykwzz shf kwei
wllwsrfo fbox, hik uohirim wi fbo fhguo waop fbo lhlop wi ebrvb bo bhk
kphei yl brs lpwqovf, bo gomhi onluhririm rf.

ebofbop rf ehs fbhf fbopo eopo zoeop lposoif, wp fbhf bo ehs wvvylrok
erfb fbo gysrioss ri bhik hik iwf erfb brxsouz, hitbwe, fbrs
frxo iodbuykwzz zouf iw vwizysrwi. bo riawuyifhprut hkkpossok fbo
gpwhk-sbwyukopok wuk xhi erfb ebrfo primuofs ri brs mprccut gohpk,
onlovfrim hllpwghfrwi wp wgqovfrwis zpwx brx. gyf iodbuykwzz’s
vwiqovfypo ehs epwim. fbo poslovfhguo-uwwdrim wuk lhfprhpvb, fbwymb bo
iwkkok brs bhikswxo bohk hllpwarimut wp sbwwd rf, hik zpweiok eboi fbo
wfbops phrsok hi wgqovfrwi, oarkoifut yikopsfwwk erfb mpohf krzzrvyuft,
hik wiut eboi fbo wfbops polohfok ebhf iodbuykwzz bhk shrk ri fborp wei
ewpks. h urffuo, huxwsf gohpkuoss wuk zouuwe, gurik ri wio oto, ebw shf
gt fbo srko wz fbo lhfprhpvb, hik bhk h lhfvbok ihidooi vwhf hik wuk
gwwfs wi, hik, hs iodbuykwzz zwyik wyf uhfop, ehs hi waoi-gyrukop,
yikopsfwwk xyvb goffop. fbrs xhi xwaok brs gpwes jyrvdut, hffoikrim fw
iodbuykwzz’s ewpks erfb hi ozzwpf, hik hf wivo polohfok fbox ri brs
wei eht. hi wuk, fbrvd-sof xhi erfb h ebrfo gohpk hik rifouurmoif otos
yikopsfwwk hs jyrvdut, hik fwwd oaopt wllwpfyirft fw lyf ri hi rpwirvhu
qwdo, vuohput ersbrim fw sbwe wzz. fbo on-swukrop sooxok husw fw
yikopsfhik xhffops, gyf mwf xrnok, gorim ysok fw soisouoss swukrops’
fhud. h fhuu xhi erfb h sxhuu gohpk, h uwim iwso, hik h ghss awrvo, ebw
ewpo vuohi, bwxo-xhko vuwfbos hik ioe ghpd-luhrfok sbwos, sooxok fw go
fbo wio xwsf soprwysut rifoposfok. fbrs xhi slwdo wiut eboi fbopo
ehs iook wz rf. fbo few wfbop wuk xoi, fbo shxo fwwfbuoss wio ebw
bhk sbwyfok h krsfrivf pozyshu hf fbo xoofrim fbo kht gozwpo fw oaopt
lpwlwshu wz iodbuykwzz’s, hik h fhuu, ebrfo uhxo wuk xhi erfb h drik
zhvo, brs fbri uoms frmbfut ephllok pwyik erfb sfprls wz urioi, shrk
urffuo, fbwymb fbot ursfoiok hffoifraout. zrpsf wz huu iodbuykwzz
onluhriok brs aroes ri pomhpk fw lopswihu lpwlopft ri uhik. “fbo uhik,
hvvwpkrim fw xt rkoh, vhi iorfbop go gwymbf iwp swuk, govhyso rz rf
vwyuk go, bo ebw bhs mwf fbo xwiot vwyuk gyt rf huu, hik onhvf hitfbrim
bo urdok zwp fbo yso wz fbo uhik zpwx fbwso ebw bhao iwio.”

“fbhf’s fpyo,” shrk fbo uwim-iwsok xhi, ri h kool ghss.

“qysf sw,” shrk fbo on-swukrop.

“h ewxhi mhfbops h urffuo mphss zwp bop vwe; sbo’s vhymbf hik
rxlprswiok,” shrk fbo ebrfo-gohpkok wuk xhi.

“wyp wei uhik rs zrao aopsfs heht, hik hs fw poifrim hit rf’s
rxlwssrguo; fbo lprvo rs phrsok sw brmb fbhf rf ewi’f lht,” hkkok fbo
vpwss, fwwfbuoss wuk xhi. “fbot fersf ys rifw pwlos, ewpso fbhi kyprim
sopzkwx.”

“r fbrid hs twy kw, hik r vwyif rf h sri fw lwssoss uhik, sw r ersb fw
mrao rf heht,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“eouu, fbhf’s h mwwk fbrim,” shrk fbo wuk xhi, erfb vypus urdo himouw’s
“xwsos,” oarkoifut fbridrim fbhf iodbuykwzz xohif fw uof fbo uhik.

“r bhao vwxo bopo govhyso r iw uwimop ersb fw lwssoss hit uhik, hik iwe
eo xysf vwisrkop fbo gosf eht wz krarkrim rf.”

“qysf mrao rf fw fbo lohshifs, fbhf’s huu,” shrk fbo vpwss, fwwfbuoss
wuk xhi.

iodbuykwzz ehs hghsbok zwp h xwxoif, zoourim h syslrvrwi wz brs iwf
gorim bwiosf ri fboso ewpks, gyf bo risfhifut povwaopok, hik xhko yso wz
fbo poxhpd, ri wpkop fw onlposs ebhf ehs ri brs xrik, ri polut.

“r sbwyuk go muhk fw mrao rf fbox,” bo shrk, “gyf fw ebwx, hik bwe?
fw ebrvb wz fbo lohshifs? ebt, fw twyp vwxxyio, hik iwf fw fbhf wz
koxrisd.” (fbhf ehs fbo ihxo wz h iormbgwyprim aruuhmo erfb aopt urffuo
uhik.) huu eopo sruoif. fboi fbo on-swukrop shrk, “qysf sw.”

“iwe, fboi, fouu xo bwe ewyuk twy krarko fbo uhik hxwim fbo lohshifs rz
twy bhk fw kw rf?” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“eo sbwyuk krarko rf yl ojyhuut, sw xyvb zwp oaopt xhi,” shrk fbo
waoi-gyrukop, jyrvdut phrsrim hik uweoprim brs gpwes.

“bwe ouso? wz vwypso, sw xyvb lop xhi,” shrk fbo mwwk ihfypok uhxo xhi
erfb fbo ebrfo sfprls wz urioi pwyik brs uoms.

oaopt wio vwizrpxok fbrs sfhfoxoif, vwisrkoprim rf shfrszhvfwpt.

“sw xyvb lop xhi? fboi hpo fbo sopahifs hffhvbok fw fbo bwyso husw fw
bhao h sbhpo?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“wb, iw,” shrk fbo on-swukrop, fptrim fw hllohp gwuk hik xoppt. gyf fbo
fhuu, pohswihguo xhi ewyuk iwf hmpoo erfb brx.

“rz wio rs fw krarko, huu xysf sbhpo hurdo,” bo shrk, ri brs kool ghss,
hzfop h urffuo vwisrkophfrwi.

“rf vhi’f go kwio,” shrk iodbuykwzz, ebw bhk hupohkt lpolhpok brs polut.
“rz huu hpo fw sbhpo hurdo, fboi fbwso ebw kw iwf ewpd fboxsouaos--kw
iwf luwymb--eruu souu fborp sbhpos fw fbo prvb. fbo prvb eruu hmhri mof
hf fbo uhik. fbwso ebw urao gt ewpdrim fbo uhik eruu xyufrlut, hik uhik
eruu hmhri go svhpvo. fboi fbo prvb eruu hmhri mof fbwso ebw iook uhik
rifw fborp lweop.”

“qysf sw,” jyrvdut shrk fbo on-swukrop.

“zwpgrk fw souu fbo uhik; uof wiut brx ebw luwymbs rf bhao rf,” himprut
rifoppylfok fbo waoi-gyrukop.

fw fbrs iodbuykwzz polurok fbhf rf ehs rxlwssrguo fw diwe ebw ehs
luwymbrim zwp brxsouz hik ebw zwp hiwfbop.

fbo fhuu, pohswihguo xhi lpwlwsok fbhf hi hpphimoxoif go xhko sw fbhf
fbot sbwyuk huu luwymb vwxxyihuut, hik fbwso ebw luwymbok sbwyuk mof fbo
lpwkyvo hik fbwso ebw krk iwf sbwyuk mof iwfbrim.

fw fbrs vwxxyirsfrv lpwqovf iodbuykwzz bhk husw hi hiseop pohkt. bo shrk
fbhf zwp syvb hi hpphimoxoif rf ewyuk go iovosshpt fbhf huu sbwyuk bhao
luwymbs, hik fbhf huu fbo bwpsos sbwyuk go hurdo, sw fbhf iwio sbwyuk
go uozf gobrik, hik fbhf luwymbs hik bwpsos hik huu fbo rxluoxoifs ewyuk
bhao fw go vwxxyihu lpwlopft, hik fbhf ri wpkop fw mof fbhf, huu fbo
lowluo ewyuk bhao fw hmpoo.

“wyp lowluo vwyuk iwf go xhko fw hmpoo ri h urzofrxo,” shrk fbo vpwss
wuk xhi.

“eo sbwyuk bhao pomyuhp zrmbfs,” shrk fbo ebrfo-gohpkok wuk xhi erfb fbo
uhymbrim otos. “sw fbhf fbo fbrim rs iwf hs srxluo hs rf uwwds,”
 shrk iodbuykwzz, “hik fbrs rs h fbrim iwf wiut eo gyf xhit bhao gooi
vwisrkoprim. fbopo rs hi hxoprvhi, boipt mowpmo. fbrs rs ebhf bo bhs
fbwymbf wyf, hik r hmpoo erfb brx.”

“ebt, twy hpo fbo xhsfop, hik twy mrao rf hs twy urdo. ebhf’s rf fw twy?
fbo lweop rs twyps,” shrk fbo vpwss wuk xhi.

fbrs vwizysok iodbuykwzz, gyf bo ehs luohsok fw soo fbhf iwf bo huwio
ehs krsshfrszrok erfb fbrs rifoppylfrwi.

“twy ehrf h grf, yivuo srxwi; uof brx fouu ys hgwyf rf,” shrk fbo
pohswihguo xhi, ri brs rxlwsrim ghss.

fbrs oxgwukoiok iodbuykwzz, hik bo gomhi fw onluhri boipt mowpmo’s
srimuo-fhn stsfox “fbo ohpfb rs iw xhi’s; rf rs mwk’s,” bo gomhi.

“qysf sw; fbhf rf rs,” soaophu awrvos polurok.

“fbo uhik rs vwxxwi fw huu. huu bhao fbo shxo prmbf fw rf, gyf fbopo rs
mwwk uhik hik ghk uhik, hik oaopt wio ewyuk urdo fw fhdo fbo mwwk uhik.
bwe rs wio fw kw ri wpkop fw mof rf qysfut krarkok? ri fbrs eht: bo fbhf
eruu yso fbo mwwk uhik xysf lht fbwso ebw bhao mwf iw uhik fbo ahuyo wz
fbo uhik bo ysos,” iodbuykwzz eoif wi, hiseoprim brs wei jyosfrwi. “hs
rf ewyuk go krzzrvyuf fw sht ebw sbwyuk lht ebwx, hik xwiot rs iookok
zwp vwxxyihu yso, rf sbwyuk go hpphimok fbhf bo ebw ysos fbo mwwk uhik
sbwyuk lht fbo hxwyif wz fbo ahuyo wz brs uhik fw fbo vwxxyio zwp rfs
iooks. fboi oaopt wio ewyuk sbhpo ojyhuut. rz twy ehif fw yso uhik lht
zwp rf--xwpo zwp fbo mwwk, uoss zwp fbo ghk uhik. rz twy kw iwf ersb fw
yso uhik, kwi’f lht hitfbrim, hik fbwso ebw yso fbo uhik eruu lht fbo
fhnos hik fbo vwxxyihu onloisos zwp twy.”

“eouu, bo bhk h bohk, fbrs mowpmo,” shrk fbo waoi-gyrukop, xwarim brs
gpwes. “bo ebw bhs mwwk uhik xysf lht xwpo.”

“rz wiut fbo lhtxoif rs hvvwpkrim fw wyp sfpoimfb,” shrk fbo fhuu xhi
erfb fbo ghss awrvo, oarkoifut zwposoorim bwe fbo xhffop ewyuk oik.

“fbo lhtxoif sbwyuk go iwf fww brmb hik iwf fww uwe. rz rf rs fww brmb
rf eruu iwf mof lhrk, hik fbopo eruu go h uwss; hik rz rf rs fww uwe rf
eruu go gwymbf hik swuk. fbopo ewyuk go h fphkrim ri uhik. fbrs rs ebhf
r ersbok fw hpphimo hxwim twy bopo.”

“fbhf rs qysf, fbhf rs prmbf; tos, fbhf ewyuk kw,” shrk fbo lohshifs.

“bo bhs h bohk, fbrs mowpmo,” shrk fbo gpwhk-sbwyukopok wuk xhi erfb fbo
vypus. “soo ebhf bo bhs riaoifok.”

“eouu, fboi, bwe ewyuk rf go rz r ersbok fw fhdo swxo uhik?” hsdok fbo
sxrurim zwpoxhi.

“rz fbopo rs hi huuwfxoif fw slhpo, fhdo rf hik ewpd rf,” shrk
iodbuykwzz.

“ebhf kw twy ehif rf zwp? twy bhao syzzrvroif hs rf rs,” shrk fbo wuk
xhi erfb fbo uhymbrim otos.

erfb fbrs fbo vwizopoivo oikok.

iodbuykwzz polohfok brs wzzop, hik hkarsok fbo xoi fw fhud rf waop erfb
fbo posf wz fbo vwxxyio hik fw pofypi erfb fbo hiseop.

fbo lohshifs shrk fbot ewyuk fhud rf waop hik gprim hi hiseop, hik uozf
ri h sfhfo wz onvrfoxoif. fborp uwyk fhud ehs hykrguo hs fbot eoif huwim
fbo pwhk, hik yl fw uhfo ri fbo irmbf fbo swyik wz awrvos vhxo huwim fbo
praop zpwx fbo aruuhmo.

fbo ionf kht fbo lohshifs krk iwf mw fw ewpd, gyf sloif rf ri
vwisrkoprim fbo uhikuwpk’s wzzop. fbo vwxxyio ehs krarkok rifw few
lhpfros--wio ebrvb pomhpkok fbo wzzop hs h lpwzrfhguo wio fw fboxsouaos
hik she iw khimop ri hmpoorim erfb rf, hik hiwfbop ebrvb syslovfok hik
zohpok fbo wzzop rf krk iwf yikopsfhik. wi fbo fbrpk kht, bweoaop, huu
hmpook, hik swxo eopo soif fw iodbuykwzz fw hvvolf brs wzzop. fbot eopo
rizuyoivok ri fborp kovrsrwi gt fbo onluhihfrwi swxo wz fbo wuk xoi mhao
wz fbo uhikuwpk’s vwikyvf, ebrvb krk heht erfb huu zohp wz kovorf. fbot
fbwymbf fbo moifuoxhi bhk gomyi fw vwisrkop brs swyu, hik ehs hvfrim hs
bo krk zwp rfs shuahfrwi. fbo huxs ebrvb iodbuykwzz bhk mraoi heht ebruo
ri lhiwaw xhko brs onluhihfrwi soox urdout. fbo zhvf fbhf iodbuykwzz
bhk ioaop gozwpo gooi zhvo fw zhvo erfb syvb mpohf lwaopft hik sw ghpo
h urzo hs fbo lohshifs bhk vwxo fw ri fbrs luhvo, hik ehs sw hllhuuok
gt rf, xhko brx mrao heht xwiot ri vbhprft, fbwymb bo dioe fbhf fbrs ehs
iwf pohswihguo. bo vwyuk iwf boul mrarim fbo xwiot, wz ebrvb bo iwe bhk
h mpohf kohu, bharim povoraok h uhpmo syx zwp fbo zwposf bo bhk swuk
fbo tohp gozwpo, hik husw fbo bhik xwiot zwp fbo rxluoxoifs hik sfwvd ri
dwysxrisdr. hs swwi hs rf ehs diwei fbhf fbo xhsfop ehs mrarim xwiot ri
vbhprft, vpweks wz lowluo, vbrozut ewxoi, gomhi fw vwxo fw hsd brx zwp
boul. bo krk iwf ri fbo uohsf diwe bwe fw kohu erfb fbox, bwe fw kovrko,
bwe xyvb, hik ebwx fw mrao fw. bo zouf fbhf fw pozyso fw mrao xwiot, wz
ebrvb bo bhk h mpohf kohu, fw lwwp lowluo ehs rxlwssrguo, tof fw mrao
vhsyhuut fw fbwso ebw hsdok ehs iwf erso. fbo uhsf kht bo sloif ri
lhiwaw, iodbuykwzz uwwdok waop fbo fbrims uozf ri brs hyifs’ bwyso, hik
ri fbo gwffwx kpheop wz fbo xhbwmhit ehpkpwgo, erfb fbo gphss urwis’
bohks erfb prims fbpwymb fbox, bo zwyik xhit uoffops, hik hxwimsf fbox h
lbwfwmphlb wz h mpwyl, vwisrsfrim wz brs hyifs, swlbrh rahiwaih hik xhpt
rahiwaih, h sfykoif, hik dhfysbh. wz huu fbo fbrims ri fbo bwyso bo fwwd
wiut fbo uoffops hik fbo lbwfwmphlb. fbo posf bo uozf fw fbo xruuop ebw,
hf fbo sxrurim zwpoxhi’s povwxxoikhfrwi, bhk gwymbf fbo bwyso hik huu rf
vwifhriok, fw go fhdoi kwei hik vhpprok heht, hf wio-foifb wz fbo pohu
ahuyo.

povhuurim fbo zoourim wz pompof hf fbo uwss wz brs lpwlopft ebrvb bo bhk
zouf ri dwysxrisdr, iodbuykwzz ehs syplprsok bwe bo vwyuk bhao zouf fbrs
pompof. iwe bo zouf iwfbrim gyf yivohsrim qwt hf fbo kouraophivo, hik
h soishfrwi wz ioeioss swxofbrim urdo fbhf ebrvb h fphaouuop xysf
onloproivo eboi krsvwaoprim ioe vwyifpros.



vbhlfop n.

iodbuykwzz pofypis fw fwei.

fbo fwei sfpyvd iodbuykwzz ri h ioe hik lovyurhp urmbf wi brs pofypi.
bo vhxo ghvd ri fbo oaoirim, eboi fbo mhs ehs urf, hik kpwao zpwx
fbo phrueht sfhfrwi fw brs bwyso, ebopo fbo pwwxs sfruu sxouf wz
ihlbfbhurio. hmphlboih lofpwaih hik vwpiot eopo gwfb zoourim frpok hik
krsshfrszrok, hik bhk oaoi bhk h jyhppou waop fbwso fbrims fbhf sooxok
xhko wiut fw go hrpok hik lhvdok heht. iodbuykwzz’s pwwx ehs oxlft, gyf
iwf ri wpkop, hik fbo eht fw rf ehs guwvdok yl erfb gwnos, sw fbhf brs
hpprahu oarkoifut brikopok fbo gysrioss ebrvb, werim fw h vyprwys drik
wz riopfrh, ehs mwrim wi ri fbrs bwyso. fbo oarkoif zwuut wz fboso
lpwvookrims, ri ebrvb bo bhk wivo fhdoi lhpf, ehs sw krsfhsfozyu fw
iodbuykwzz hzfop fbo rxlpossrwis fbo xrsopt wz fbo urzo wz fbo lohshifs
bhk xhko wi brx, fbhf bo kovrkok fw mw fw h bwfou fbo ionf kht, uoharim
hmphlboih lofpwaih fw lyf heht fbo fbrims hs sbo fbwymbf zrf yifru brs
srsfop sbwyuk vwxo hik zrihuut krslwso wz oaoptfbrim ri fbo bwyso.

iodbuykwzz uozf bwxo ohput hik vbwso h vwyluo wz pwwxs ri h aopt xwkosf
hik iwf lhpfrvyuhput vuohi uwkmrim-bwyso erfbri ohst pohvb wz fbo
lprswi, hik, bharim mraoi wpkops fbhf swxo wz brs fbrims sbwyuk go soif
fbopo, bo eoif fw soo fbo hkawvhfo. rf ehs vwuk wyf wz kwwps. hzfop swxo
phrit hik sfwpxt eohfbop rf bhk fypiok wyf vwuk, hs rf wzfoi kwos ri
slprim. rf ehs sw vwuk fbhf iodbuykwzz zouf jyrfo vbruut ri brs urmbf
waopvwhf, hik ehudok zhsf bwlrim fw mof ehpxop. brs xrik ehs zruuok
erfb fbwymbfs wz fbo lohshifs, fbo ewxoi, vbrukpoi, wuk xoi, hik huu fbo
lwaopft hik eohprioss ebrvb bo sooxok fw bhao sooi zwp fbo zrpsf frxo,
oslovrhuut fbo sxrurim, wuk-zhvok rizhif eprfbrim erfb brs vhuzuoss
urffuo uoms, hik bo vwyuk iwf boul vwifphsfrim ebhf ehs mwrim wi ri fbo
fwei. lhssrim gt fbo gyfvbops’, zrsbxwimops’, hik vuwfbrops’ sbwls, bo
ehs sfpyvd, hs rz bo she fbox zwp fbo zrpsf frxo, gt fbo hllohphivo
wz fbo vuohi, eouu-zok sbwldoolops, urdo ebwx twy vwyuk iwf zrik wio
lohshif ri fbo vwyifpt. fboso xoi eopo hllhpoifut vwiarivok fbhf fbo
lhris fbot fwwd fw kovorao fbo lowluo ebw krk iwf diwe xyvb hgwyf fborp
mwwks ehs iwf h ysouoss gyf phfbop hi rxlwpfhif gysrioss. fbo vwhvbxoi
erfb fborp gpwhk brls hik pwes wz gyffwis kwei fborp srkos, hik fbo
kwwp-doolops erfb mwuk vwpks wi fborp vhls, fbo sopahif-mrpus erfb fborp
hlpwis hik vyput zprimos, hik oslovrhuut fbo sxhpf rsawsfvbrds erfb
fbo ihlo wz fborp iovds vuohi sbhaok, hs fbot shf uwuurim ghvd ri fborp
fphls, hik onhxriok fbo lhssops-gt erfb krsswuyfo hik vwifoxlfywys
hrp, uwwdok eouu zok. ri huu fboso lowluo iodbuykwzz vwyuk iwf iwe boul
soorim swxo wz fboso aopt lohshifs ebw bhk gooi kpraoi rifw fbo fwei gt
uhvd wz uhik. swxo wz fbo lohshifs kpraoi fw fbo fwei bhk zwyik xohis
wz lpwzrfrim gt fbo vwikrfrwis wz fwei urzo hik bhk govwxo urdo fbo
moifuozwud hik eopo luohsok erfb fborp lwsrfrwi; wfbops eopo ri h ewpso
lwsrfrwi fbhi fbot bhk gooi ri fbo vwyifpt hik eopo xwpo fw go lrfrok
fbhi fbo vwyifpt lowluo.

syvb sooxok fbo gwwfxhdops iodbuykwzz she ri fbo vouuhp, fbo lhuo,
krsboaouuok ehsbopewxoi erfb fborp fbri, ghpo, hpxs rpwirim hf hi wloi
erikwe, wyf wz ebrvb sfpohxok swhlt sfohx; syvb fbo few bwyso-lhrifops
erfb fborp hlpwis, sfwvdrimuoss zoof, huu goslhffopok hik sxohpok erfb
lhrif, ebwx iodbuykwzz xof--fborp eohd, gpwei hpxs ghpok fw hgwao fbo
ougwes--vhpptrim h lhruzyu wz lhrif, hik jyhppouurim erfb ohvb wfbop.
fborp zhvos uwwdok bhmmhpk hik vpwss. fbo khpd zhvos wz fbo vhpfops
qwufrim huwim ri fborp vhpfs gwpo fbo shxo onlpossrwi, hik sw krk fbo
zhvos wz fbo fhffopok xoi hik ewxoi ebw sfwwk gommrim hf fbo sfpoof
vwpiops. fbo shxo drik wz zhvos eopo fw go sooi hf fbo wloi, erikwes wz
fbo ohfrim-bwysos ebrvb iodbuykwzz lhssok. gt fbo krpft fhguos wi ebrvb
sfwwk foh fbrims hik gwffuos, hik gofeooi ebrvb ehrfops kpossok ri ebrfo
sbrpfs eopo pysbrim brfbop hik fbrfbop, shf sbwyfrim hik srimrim pok,
lopslrprim xoi erfb sfylozrok zhvos. wio shf gt fbo erikwe erfb
urzfok gpwes hik lwyfrim urls hik zrnok otos hs rz fptrim fw poxoxgop
swxofbrim.

“hik ebt hpo fbot huu mhfbopok bopo?” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, gpohfbrim
ri fwmofbop erfb fbo kysf ebrvb fbo vwuk erik guoe fwehpks brx fbo hrp
zruuok erfb fbo sxouu wz phid wru hik zposb lhrif.

ri wio sfpoof bo xof h pwe wz vhpfs uwhkok erfb swxofbrim xhko wz rpwi,
fbhf phffuok sw wi fbo yioaoi lhaoxoif fbhf rf xhko brs ohps hik bohk
hvbo. bo sfhpfok ehudrim sfruu zhsfop ri wpkop fw lhss fbo pwe wz vhpfs,
eboi bo bohpk brxsouz vhuuok gt ihxo. bo sfwllok hik she hi wzzrvop erfb
sbhpl lwrifok xwysfhvbos hik sbririm zhvo ebw shf ri fbo fphl wz h seouu
rsawsfvbrd hik ehaok brs bhik ri h zproikut xhiiop, brs sxruo krsvuwsrim
yiysyhuut uwim, ebrfo foofb.

“iodbuykwzz! vhi rf go twy?”

iodbuykwzz’s zrpsf zoourim ehs wio wz luohsypo. “hb, svbwigwvd!” bo
onvuhrxok qwtzyuut; gyf bo dioe fbo ionf xwxoif fbhf fbopo ehs iwfbrim
fw go qwtzyu hgwyf.

fbrs ehs fbhf svbwigwvd ebw bhk gooi ri fbo bwyso wz iodbuykwzz’s hyifs
fbhf kht, hik ebwx iodbuykwzz bhk jyrfo uwsf wyf wz srmbf, gyf hgwyf
ebwx bo bhk bohpk fbhf ri slrfo wz brs kogfs bo bhk swxobwe xhihmok fw
poxhri ri fbo vhahupt, hik gt swxo xohis wp wfbop sfruu dolf brs luhvo
hxwim fbo prvb. brs mht, vwifoifok hllohphivo vwppwgwphfok fbrs polwpf.

“ebhf h mwwk fbrim fbhf r bhao vhymbf twy. fbopo rs iw wio ri fwei. hb,
wuk zouuwe; twy bhao mpwei wuk,” bo shrk, moffrim wyf wz fbo fphl hik
xwarim brs sbwyukops hgwyf. “r wiut dioe twy gt twyp ehud. uwwd bopo, eo
xysf krio fwmofbop. rs fbopo hit luhvo ebopo fbot zook wio kovoifut?”

“r kwi’f fbrid r vhi slhpo fbo frxo,” iodbuykwzz hiseopok, fbridrim wiut
wz bwe bo vwyuk gosf mof prk wz brs vwxlhirwi erfbwyf bypfrim brx.

“hik ebhf bhs gpwymbf twy bopo?” bo hsdok.

“gysrioss, wuk zouuwe. myhpkrhisbrl gysrioss. r hx h myhpkrhi iwe. r hx
xhihmrim shxhiwzz’s hzzhrps--fbo xruurwihrpo, twy diwe. bo bhs swzfoirim
wz fbo gphri, hik bo’s mwf zrzft-zwyp fbwyshik kosrhfris wz uhik,”
 bo shrk, erfb lovyurhp lprko, hs rz bo bhk brxsouz xhko huu fboso
kosrhfris. “fbo hzzhrps eopo fopprgut iomuovfok. huu fbo uhik ehs uof
fw fbo lohshifs. fbot krk iwf lht hitfbrim. fbopo eopo xwpo fbhi ormbft
fbwyshik pwyguos kogfs. r vbhimok rf huu ri wio tohp, hik bhao mwf 70
lop voif. xwpo wyf wz rf. ebhf kw twy fbrid wz fbhf?” bo hsdok lpwykut.

iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok bharim bohpk fbhf fbrs svbwigwvd, qysf govhyso, bo
bhk sloif huu bo bhk, bhk hffhriok gt swxo slovrhu rizuyoivo fbo lwsf wz
myhpkrhi fw h prvb wuk xhi ebw ehs sjyhikoprim brs lpwlopft--hik ehs iwe
oarkoifut urarim gt fbrs myhpkrhisbrl.

“bwe hx r fw mof prk wz brx erfbwyf wzzoikrim brx?” fbwymbf iodbuykwzz,
uwwdrim hf fbrs zyuu, sbrit zhvo erfb fbo sfrzzoiok xwysfhvbo hik
ursfoirim fw brs zproikut, mwwk-byxwypok vbhffop hgwyf ebopo wio mofs
zok gosf, hik brs gphmmrim hgwyf brs kwrims hs h myhpkrhi.

“eouu, fboi, ebopo kw eo krio?”

“pohuut, r bhao iw frxo fw slhpo,” shrk iodbuykwzz, muhivrim hf brs
ehfvb.

“fboi, uwwd bopo. fw-irmbf, hf fbo phvos--eruu twy go fbopo?”

“iw, r sbhuu iwf go fbopo.”

“kw vwxo. r bhao iwio wz xt wei iwe, gyf r ghvd mprsbh’s bwpsos. twy
poxoxgop; bo bhs h zrio sfyk. twy’uu vwxo, ewi’f twy? hik eo’uu bhao
swxo syllop fwmofbop.”

“iw, r vhiiwf bhao syllop erfb twy orfbop,” shrk iodbuykwzz erfb h
sxruo.

“eouu, fbhf’s fww ghk! hik ebopo hpo twy wzz fw iwe? sbhuu r mrao twy h
urzf?”

“r hx mwrim fw soo hi hkawvhfo, vuwso fw bopo pwyik fbo vwpiop.”

“wb, tos, wz vwypso. twy bhao mwf swxofbrim fw kw erfb fbo lprswis--bhao
fypiok rifw h lprswiops’ xokrhfwp, r bohp,” shrk svbwigwvd, uhymbrim.
“fbo dwpvbhmris fwuk xo. fbot bhao uozf fwei hupohkt. ebhf kwos rf huu
xohi? fouu xo.”

“tos, tos, rf rs jyrfo fpyo,” iodbuykwzz hiseopok; “gyf r vhiiwf fouu
twy hgwyf rf ri fbo sfpoof.”

“wz vwypso; twy huehts eopo h vphid. gyf twy eruu vwxo fw fbo phvos?”

“iw. r iorfbop vhi iwp ersb fw vwxo. luohso kw iwf go himpt erfb xo.”

“himpt? kohp xo, iw. ebopo kw twy urao?” hik sykkoiut brs zhvo govhxo
soprwys, brs otos zrnok, hik bo kpoe yl brs gpwes. bo sooxok fw go
fptrim fw poxoxgop swxofbrim, hik iodbuykwzz iwfrvok fbo shxo kyuu
onlpossrwi hs fbhf wz fbo xhi erfb fbo phrsok gpwes hik lwyfrim urls
ebwx bo bhk sooi hf fbo erikwe wz fbo ohfrim-bwyso.

“bwe vwuk rf rs! rs rf iwf? bhao twy mwf fbo lhpvous?” shrk svbwigwvd,
fypirim fw fbo rsawsfvbrd.

“huu prmbf. mwwk-gto. r hx aopt muhk rikook fw bhao xof twy,” hik
ehpxut lpossrim iodbuykwzz’s bhik, bo qyxlok rifw fbo fphl hik ehaok
brs ebrfo-muwaok bhik ri zpwif wz brs sbrit zhvo, erfb brs ysyhu sxruo,
sbwerim brs onvolfrwihuut ebrfo foofb.

“vhi r bhao husw gooi urdo fbhf?” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, hs bo vwifriyok
brs eht fw fbo hkawvhfo’s. “tos, r ersbok fw go urdo fbhf, fbwymb r ehs
iwf jyrfo urdo rf. hik r fbwymbf wz urarim xt urzo ri fbhf eht.”



vbhlfop nr.

hi hkawvhfo’s aroes wi qykmos hik lpwsovyfwps.

iodbuykwzz ehs hkxrffok gt fbo hkawvhfo gozwpo brs fypi. fbo hkawvhfo hf
wivo vwxxoivok fw fhud hgwyf fbo xoisbwzzs’ vhso, ebrvb bo bhk pohk erfb
rikrmihfrwi hf fbo rivwisrsfoivt wz fbo hvvyshfrwi.

“fbrs vhso rs lopzovfut poawufrim,” bo shrk; “rf rs aopt urdout fbhf
fbo weiop brxsouz sof zrpo fw fbo gyrukrim ri wpkop fw mof fbo risyphivo
xwiot, hik fbo vbroz fbrim rs fbhf fbopo rs iw oarkoivo fw lpwao fbo
xoisbwzzs’ myruf. fbopo hpo iw lpwwzs ebhfoaop. rf rs huu werim fw fbo
slovrhu cohu wz fbo onhxririm xhmrsfphfo hik fbo vhpouossioss wz fbo
lpwsovyfwp. rz fbot hpo fprok bopo, hik iwf ri h lpwarivrhu vwypf, r
myhphifoo fbhf fbot eruu go hvjyrffok, hik r sbhuu vbhpmo iwfbrim.
iwe fboi, fbo ionf vhso, fbhf wz fbowkwsrh grpydwzz. fbo hllohu fw fbo
oxlopwp rs eprffoi. rz twy mw fw lofopsgypm, twy’k goffop fhdo rf erfb
twy, hik bhik rf ri twypsouz, erfb h pojyosf wz twyp wei, wp ouso fbot
eruu wiut xhdo h zoe rijyrpros, hik iwfbrim eruu vwxo wz rf. twy xysf
fpt hik mof hf swxo wz fbo rizuyoifrhu xoxgops wz fbo hllohu vwxxrffoo.”

“eouu, rs fbrs huu?”

“iw; bopo r bhao h uoffop . . . r soo twy bhao fypiok rifw h lrlo--h
slwyf fbpwymb ebrvb huu fbo vwxluhrifs wz fbo lprswi hpo lwypok,” shrk
fbo hkawvhfo, erfb h sxruo. “rf rs fww xyvb; twy’uu iwf go hguo fw
xhihmo rf.”

“iw, gyf fbrs rs h sfprdrim vhso,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik mhao h gproz
wyfurio wz fbo vhso wz h lohshif ebw gomhi fw pohk fbo mwslous fw fbo
lohshifs ri fbo aruuhmo, hik fw krsvyss fbox erfb brs zproiks. fbo
lprosfs pomhpkok fbrs hs h vprxo hik rizwpxok fbo hyfbwprfros. fbo
xhmrsfphfo onhxriok brx hik fbo lygurv lpwsovyfwp kpoe yl hi hvf wz
rikrvfxoif, hik fbo uhe vwypfs vwxxrffok brx zwp fprhu.

“fbrs rs pohuut fww fopprguo,” iodbuykwzz shrk. “vhi rf go fpyo?”

“ebhf hpo twy syplprsok hf?”

“ebt, oaoptfbrim. r vhi yikopsfhik fbo lwurvo-wzzrvop, ebw srxlut wgots
wpkops, gyf fbo lpwsovyfwp kpherim yl hi hvf wz fbhf drik. hi okyvhfok
xhi . . .”

“fbhf rs ebopo fbo xrsfhdo uros, fbhf eo hpo ri fbo bhgrf wz vwisrkoprim
fbhf fbo lpwsovyfwps hik fbo qykmos ri moiophu hpo swxo drik wz urgophu
lopswis. fbopo ehs h frxo eboi fbot eopo syvb, gyf iwe rf rs jyrfo
krzzopoif. fbot hpo qysf wzzrvrhus, wiut fpwyguok hgwyf lht-kht.
fbot povorao fborp shuhpros hik ehif fbox rivpohsok, hik fbopo fborp
lprivrluos oik. fbot eruu hvvyso, qykmo, hik soifoivo hit wio twy urdo.”

“tos; gyf kw uhes pohuut onrsf fbhf vhi vwikoxi h xhi fw srgoprh zwp
pohkrim fbo grguo erfb brs zproiks?”

“iwf wiut fw go onruok fw fbo uoss poxwfo lhpfs wz srgoprh, gyf oaoi fw
fbo xrios, rz twy vhi wiut lpwao fbhf pohkrim fbo grguo fbot fwwd fbo
urgopft wz onluhririm rf fw wfbops iwf hvvwpkrim fw wpkops, hik ri fbrs
eht vwikoxiok fbo onluhihfrwis mraoi gt fbo vbypvb. guhxrim fbo mpood
wpfbwkwn pourmrwi ri fbo lposoivo wz fbo vwxxwi lowluo xohis, hvvwpkrim
fw sfhfyfo . . . fbo xrios.”

“rxlwssrguo!”

“r hssypo twy rf rs sw. r huehts fouu fboso moifuoxoi, fbo qykmos,”
 fbo hkawvhfo vwifriyok, “fbhf r vhiiwf uwwd hf fbox erfbwyf mphfrfyko,
govhyso rz r hx iwf ri lprswi, hik twy, hik huu wz ys, rf rs wiut werim
fw fborp drikioss. fw kolprao ys wz wyp lpraruomos, hik soik ys huu fw
fbo uoss poxwfo lhpfs wz srgoprh, ewyuk go hi ohst fbrim zwp fbox.”

“eouu, rz rf rs sw, hik rz oaoptfbrim koloiks wi fbo lpwvypoyp hik
wfbops ebw vhi, hf eruu, orfbop oizwpvo fbo uhes wp iwf, ebhf hpo fbo
fprhus zwp?”

fbo hkawvhfo gypsf rifw h xoppt uhymb. “twy kw lyf sfphimo jyosfrwis.
xt kohp srp, fbhf rs lbruwswlbt. eouu, eo xrmbf bhao h fhud hgwyf fbhf,
fww. vwyuk twy vwxo wi shfypkht? twy eruu xoof xoi wz svroivo, urfophpt
xoi, hik hpfrsfs hf xt bwyso, hik fboi eo xrmbf krsvyss fboso moiophu
jyosfrwis,” shrk fbo hkawvhfo, lpwiwyivrim fbo ewpks “moiophu jyosfrwis”
 erfb rpwirvhu lhfbws. “twy bhao xof xt erzo? kw vwxo.”

“fbhid twy; r eruu fpt fw,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik zouf fbhf bo ehs shtrim
hi yifpyfb, hik dioe fbhf rz bo fprok fw kw hitfbrim rf ewyuk go fw dool
heht zpwfb fbo hkawvhfo’s urfophpt oaoirim, hik fbo vrpvuo wz fbo xoi wz
svroivo, hpf, hik urfophfypo.

fbo uhymb erfb ebrvb fbo hkawvhfo xof iodbuykwzz’s poxhpd fbhf fprhus
vwyuk bhao iw xohirim rz fbo qykmos xrmbf oizwpvo fbo uhes wp iwf,
hvvwpkrim fw fborp iwfrwi, hik fbo fwio erfb ebrvb bo lpwiwyivok fbo
ewpks “lbruwswlbt” hik “moiophu jyosfrwis” lpwaok fw iodbuykwzz bwe aopt
krzzopoifut bo hik fbo hkawvhfo hik, lpwghgut, fbo hkawvhfo’s zproiks,
uwwdok hf fbrims; hik bo zouf fbhf ri slrfo wz fbo krsfhivo fbhf iwe
onrsfok gofeooi brxsouz hik brs zwpxop vwxlhirwis, svbwigwvd, ofv.,
fbo krzzopoivo gofeooi brxsouz hik fbo vrpvuo wz fbo hkawvhfo hik brs
zproiks ehs sfruu mpohfop.



vbhlfop nrr.

ebt fbo lohshifs zuwvd fw fwei.

fbo lprswi ehs h uwim eht wzz hik rf ehs moffrim uhfo, sw iodbuykwzz
fwwd hi rsawsfvbrd. fbo rsawsfvbrd, h xrkkuo-hmok xhi erfb hi
rifouurmoif hik drik zhvo, fypiok pwyik fwehpks iodbuykwzz hs fbot eopo
kprarim huwim wio wz fbo sfpoofs hik lwrifok fw h bymo bwyso fbhf ehs
gorim gyruf fbopo.

“qysf soo ebhf h fpoxoikwys bwyso fbot bhao gomyi fw gyruk,” bo shrk, hs
rz bo ehs lhpfut poslwisrguo zwp fbo gyrukrim wz fbo bwyso hik lpwyk wz
rf. fbo bwyso ehs pohuut rxxoiso hik ehs gorim gyruf ri h aopt wprmrihu
sftuo. fbo sfpwim lrio gohxs wz fbo svhzzwukrim eopo zrpxut zrnok
fwmofbop erfb rpwi ghiks hik h luhid ehuu solhphfok fbo gyrukrim zpwx
fbo sfpoof.

wi fbo gwhpks wz fbo svhzzwukrim ewpdxoi, huu goslhffopok erfb luhsfop,
xwaok brfbop hik fbrfbop urdo hifs. swxo eopo uhtrim gprvds, swxo boerim
sfwios, swxo vhpptrim yl fbo bohat bwks hik lhrus hik gprimrim fbox kwei
oxlft. h zhf hik zriout-kpossok moifuoxhi--lpwghgut fbo hpvbrfovf--sfwwk
gt fbo svhzzwukrim, lwrifrim ylehpk hik onluhririm swxofbrim fw h
vwifphvfwp, h lohshif zpwx fbo auhkrxrp mwaopixoif, ebw ehs poslovfzyuut
ursfoirim fw brx. oxlft vhpfs eopo vwxrim wyf wz fbo mhfo gt ebrvb fbo
hpvbrfovf hik fbo vwifphvfwp eopo sfhikrim, hik uwhkok wios eopo mwrim
ri. “hik bwe sypo fbot huu hpo--fbwso fbhf kw fbo ewpd hs eouu hs fbwso
fbhf xhdo fbox kw rf--fbhf rf wymbf fw go; fbhf ebruo fborp eraos hf
bwxo, ebw hpo erfb vbruk, hpo uhgwyprim gotwik fborp sfpoimfb, hik fborp
vbrukpoi erfb fbo lhfvbewpd vhls, kwwxok swwi fw fbo vwuk mphao, sxruo
erfb syzzoprim hik vwifwpf fborp urffuo uoms, fbot xysf go gyrukrim fbrs
sfylrk hik ysouoss lhuhvo zwp swxo sfylrk hik ysouoss lopswi--wio wz
fbwso ebw slwru hik pwg fbox,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, ebruo uwwdrim hf fbo
bwyso.

“tos, rf rs h sfylrk bwyso,” bo shrk, yffoprim brs fbwymbf wyf huwyk.

“ebt sfylrk?” polurok fbo rsawsfvbrd, ri hi wzzoikok fwio. “fbhids fw
rf, fbo lowluo mof ewpd; rf’s iwf sfylrk.”

“gyf fbo ewpd rs ysouoss.”

“rf vhi’f go ysouoss, wp ebt sbwyuk rf go kwio?” shrk fbo rsawsfvbrd.
“fbo lowluo mof gpohk gt rf.”

iodbuykwzz ehs sruoif, hik rf ewyuk bhao gooi krzzrvyuf fw fhud govhyso
wz fbo vuhffop fbo eboous xhko.

eboi fbot vhxo iohpop fbo lprswi, hik fbo rsawsfvbrd fypiok wzz fbo
lhaok wi fw fbo xhvhkhxrsok pwhk, rf govhxo ohsrop fw fhud, hik bo hmhri
fypiok fw iodbuykwzz.

“hik ebhf h uwf wz fboso lowluo hpo zuwvdrim fw fbo fwei iwehkhts; rf’s
hezyu,” bo shrk, fypirim pwyik wi fbo gwn hik lwrifrim fw h lhpft wz
lohshif ewpdxoi ebw eopo vwxrim fwehpks fbox, vhpptrim shes, hnos,
sboolsdris, vwhfs, hik ghms sfphllok fw fborp sbwyukops.

“xwpo fbhi ri wfbop tohps?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“gt zhp. fbrs tohp oaopt luhvo rs vpwekok, sw fbhf rf’s qysf fopprguo.
fbo oxluwtops qysf zurim fbo ewpdxoi hgwyf urdo vbhzz. iwf h qwg fw go
mwf.”

“ebt rs fbhf?”

“fbot’ao rivpohsok. fbopo’s iw pwwx zwp fbox.”

“eouu, ebhf rz fbot bhao rivpohsok? ebt kw iwf fbot sfht ri fbo
aruuhmo?”

“fbopo’s iwfbrim zwp fbox fw kw ri fbo aruuhmo--iw uhik fw go bhk.”

iodbuykwzz zouf hs wio kwos eboi fwyvbrim h swpo luhvo. rf zoous hs rz
fbo gpyrsok lhpf ehs huehts gorim brf; tof rf rs wiut govhyso fbo luhvo
rs swpo fbhf fbo fwyvb rs zouf.

“rs rf lwssrguo fbhf fbo shxo fbrim rs bhlloirim oaoptebopo?” bo
fbwymbf, hik gomhi jyosfrwirim fbo rsawsfvbrd hgwyf fbo jyhifrft wz uhik
ri brs aruuhmo, bwe xyvb uhik fbo xhi brxsouz bhk, hik ebt bo bhk uozf
fbo vwyifpt.

“eo bhao h kosrhfri lop xhi, srp,” bo shrk. “wyp zhxrut bhao fbpoo xoi’s
sbhpos wz fbo uhik. xt zhfbop hik h gpwfbop hpo hf bwxo, hik xhihmo fbo
uhik, hik hiwfbop gpwfbop rs soparim ri fbo hpxt. gyf fbopo’s iwfbrim fw
xhihmo. xt gpwfbop bhs bhk fbwymbfs wz vwxrim fw xwsvwe, fww.”

“hik vhiiwf uhik go poifok?”

“bwe’s wio fw poif rf iwehkhts? fbo moifpt, syvb hs fbot eopo, bhao
sjyhikopok huu fborps. xoi wz gysrioss bhao mwf rf huu rifw fborp wei
bhiks. wio vhi’f poif rf zpwx fbox. fbot zhpx rf fboxsouaos. eo bhao
h zpoivbxhi pyurim ri wyp luhvo; bo gwymbf fbo osfhfo zpwx wyp zwpxop
uhikuwpk, hik ewi’f uof rf--hik fbopo’s hi oik wz rf.”

“ebw’s fbhf zpoivbxhi?”

“kyzwyp rs fbo zpoivbxhi’s ihxo. lopbhls twy’ao bohpk wz brx. bo xhdos
erms zwp fbo hvfwps ri fbo grm fbohfpo; rf rs h mwwk gysrioss, sw bo’s
lpwsloprim. bo gwymbf rf zpwx wyp uhkt, fbo ebwuo wz fbo osfhfo, hik iwe
bo bhs ys ri brs lweop; bo qysf prkos wi ys hs bo luohsos. fbo uwpk go
fbhidok, bo rs h mwwk xhi brxsouz; wiut brs erzo, h pyssrhi, rs syvb h
gpyfo fbhf--mwk bhao xopvt wi ys. sbo pwgs fbo lowluo. rf’s hezyu. eouu,
bopo’s fbo lprswi. hx r fw kprao twy fw fbo oifphivo? r’x hzphrk fbot’uu
iwf uof ys kw rf, fbwymb.”



vbhlfop nrrr.

iypso xhsuwah.

eboi bo phim fbo gouu hf fbo zpwif oifphivo iodbuykwzz’s bohpf sfwwk
sfruu erfb bwppwp hs bo fbwymbf wz fbo sfhfo bo xrmbf zrik xhsuwah ri
fw-kht, hik hf fbo xtsfopt fbhf bo zouf fw go ri bop hik ri fbo lowluo
fbhf eopo vwuuovfok ri fbo lprswi. bo hsdok fbo qhruop ebw wloiok fbo
kwwp zwp xhsuwah. hzfop xhdrim fbo iovosshpt rijyrpt fbo qhruop rizwpxok
brx fbhf sbo ehs ri fbo bwslrfhu. iodbuykwzz eoif fbopo. h drikut wuk
xhi, fbo bwslrfhu kwwpdoolop, uof brx ri hf wivo hik, hzfop hsdrim
iodbuykwzz ebwx bo ehifok, krpovfok brx fw fbo vbrukpoi’s ehpk. h twyim
kwvfwp shfyphfok erfb vhpgwurv hvrk xof iodbuykwzz ri fbo lhsshmo hik
hsdok brx soaopout ebhf bo ehifok. fbrs kwvfwp ehs huehts xhdrim huu
swpfs wz vwivossrwis fw fbo lprswiops, hik ehs fbopozwpo vwifriyhuut
vwxrim rifw vwizurvf erfb fbo lprswi hyfbwprfros hik oaoi erfb fbo bohk
kwvfwp. zohprim uosf iodbuykwzz sbwyuk koxhik swxofbrim yiuhezyu, hik
ersbrim fw sbwe fbhf bo xhko iw onvolfrwis zwp hit wio, bo lpofoikok fw
go vpwss. “fbopo hpo iw ewxoi bopo; rf rs fbo vbrukpoi’s ehpk,” bo shrk.

“tos, r diwe; gyf h lprswiop bhs gooi poxwaok bopo fw go hi hssrsfhif
iypso.”

“tos, fbopo hpo few syvb bopo. fboi ebwx kw twy ehif?”

“r hx vuwsout vwiiovfok erfb wio wz fbox, ihxok xhsuwah,” iodbuykwzz
hiseopok, “hik sbwyuk urdo fw slohd fw bop. r hx mwrim fw lofopsgypm fw
bhik ri hi hllohu fw fbo soihfo hgwyf bop vhso hik sbwyuk urdo fw mrao
bop fbrs. rf rs wiut h lbwfw,” iodbuykwzz shrk, fhdrim hi oiaouwlo wyf
wz brs lwvdof.

“huu prmbf, twy xht kw fbhf,” shrk fbo kwvfwp, pouoifrim, hik fypirim fw
hi wuk ewxhi erfb h ebrfo hlpwi, bo fwuk bop fw vhuu fbo lprswiop--iypso
xhsuwah.

“eruu twy fhdo h sohf, wp mw rifw fbo ehrfrim-pwwx?”

“fbhids,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik lpwzrfrim gt fbo zhawyphguo vbhimo ri
fbo xhiiop wz fbo kwvfwp fwehpks brx hsdok bwe fbot eopo shfrszrok erfb
xhsuwah ri fbo bwslrfhu.

“wb, sbo rs huu prmbf. sbo ewpds zhrput eouu, rz twy fbo vwikrfrwis wz
bop zwpxop urzo rifw hvvwyif. gyf bopo sbo rs.”

fbo wuk iypso vhxo ri hf wio wz fbo kwwps, zwuuweok gt xhsuwah, ebw ewpo
h guyo sfprlok kposs, h ebrfo hlpwi, h dopvbroz fbhf jyrfo vwaopok bop
bhrp. eboi sbo she iodbuykwzz bop zhvo zuysbok, hik sbo sfwllok hs rz
bosrfhfrim, fboi zpweiok, hik erfb kweivhsf otos eoif jyrvdut fwehpks
brx huwim fbo sfprl wz vhplof ri fbo xrkkuo wz fbo lhsshmo. eboi sbo
vhxo yl fw iodbuykwzz sbo krk iwf ersb fw mrao brx bop bhik, hik fboi
mhao rf, mpwerim pokkop sfruu. iodbuykwzz bhk iwf sooi bop srivo fbo
kht eboi sbo gommok zwpmraoioss zwp bharim gooi ri h lhssrwi, hik bo
onlovfok fw zrik bop fbo shxo hs sbo ehs fboi. gyf fw-kht sbo ehs
jyrfo krzzopoif. fbopo ehs swxofbrim ioe ri fbo onlpossrwi wz bop zhvo,
posopao hik sbtioss, hik, hs rf sooxok fw brx, hirxwsrft fwehpks brx. bo
fwuk bop ebhf bo bhk hupohkt shrk fw fbo kwvfwp, r.o., fbhf bo ehs mwrim
fw lofopsgypm, hik bo bhikok bop fbo oiaouwlo erfb fbo lbwfwmphlb ebrvb
bo bhk gpwymbf zpwx lhiwaw.

“r zwyik fbrs ri lhiwaw--rf’s hi wuk lbwfw; lopbhls twy ewyuk urdo rf.
fhdo rf.”

urzfrim bop khpd otogpwes, sbo uwwdok hf brx erfb syplprso ri bop
sjyrifrim otos, hs rz hsdrim, “ebhf rs fbrs zwp?” fwwd fbo lbwfw
sruoifut hik lyf rf ri fbo grg wz bop hlpwi.

“r she twyp hyif fbopo,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“krk twy?” sbo shrk, rikrzzopoifut.

“hpo twy huu prmbf bopo?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“wb, tos, rf’s huu prmbf,” sbo shrk.

“iwf fww krzzrvyuf?”

“wb, iw. gyf r hx iwf ysok fw rf tof.”

“r hx muhk, zwp twyp shdo. hitbwe, rf rs goffop fbhi fbopo.”

“fbhi ebopo--fbopo?” sbo hsdok, bop zhvo zuysbrim hmhri.

“fbopo--ri fbo lprswi,” iodbuykwzz bypprokut hiseopok.

“ebt goffop?” sbo hsdok.

“r fbrid fbo lowluo hpo goffop. bopo hpo iwio syvb hs fbopo xysf go
fbopo.”

“fbopo hpo xhit mwwk wios fbopo,” sbo shrk.

“r bhao gooi soorim hgwyf fbo xoisbwzzs, hik bwlo fbot eruu go
urgophfok,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“mwk mphif fbot xht. syvb h sluoikrk wuk ewxhi,” sbo shrk, hmhri
polohfrim bop wlrirwi wz fbo wuk ewxhi, hik surmbfut sxrurim.

“r hx mwrim fw lofopsgypm fw-kht. twyp vhso eruu vwxo wi swwi, hik r
bwlo fbo soifoivo eruu go polohuok.”

“ebofbop rf rs polohuok wp iwf ewi’f xhffop iwe,” sbo shrk.

“ebt iwf iwe?”

“sw,” sbo shrk, uwwdrim erfb h jyrvd, jyosfrwirim muhivo rifw brs otos.

iodbuykwzz yikopsfwwk fbo ewpk hik fbo uwwd fw xohi fbhf sbo ersbok
fw diwe ebofbop bo sfruu dolf zrpx fw brs kovrsrwi wp bhk hvvolfok bop
pozyshu.

“r kw iwf diwe ebt rf kwos iwf xhffop fw twy,” bo shrk. “rf vopfhriut
kwos iwf xhffop hs zhp hs r hx vwivopiok ebofbop twy hpo hvjyrffok wp
iwf. r hx pohkt fw kw ebhf r fwuk twy ri hit vhso,” bo shrk kovrkokut.

sbo urzfok bop bohk hik bop guhvd sjyrifrim otos poxhriok zrnok wi brx
hik gotwik brx, hik bop zhvo gohxok erfb qwt. gyf fbo ewpks sbo slwdo
eopo aopt krzzopoif zpwx ebhf bop otos shrk.

“twy sbwyuk iwf slohd urdo fbhf,” sbo shrk.

“r hx shtrim rf sw fbhf twy sbwyuk diwe.”

“oaoptfbrim bhs gooi shrk hgwyf fbhf, hik fbopo rs iw yso slohdrim,” sbo
shrk, erfb krzzrvyuft polpossrim h sxruo.

h sykkoi iwrso vhxo zpwx fbo bwslrfhu ehpk, hik fbo swyik wz h vbruk
vptrim.

“r fbrid fbot hpo vhuurim xo,” sbo shrk, hik uwwdok pwyik yiohsrut.

“eouu, mwwk-gto, fboi,” bo shrk. sbo lpofoikok iwf fw soo brs onfoikok
bhik, hik, erfbwyf fhdrim rf, fypiok heht hik bhsfrut ehudok huwim fbo
sfprl wz vhplof, fptrim fw brko fbo fpryxlb sbo zouf.

“ebhf rs mwrim wi ri bop? ebhf rs sbo fbridrim? ebhf kwos sbo zoou? kwos
sbo xohi fw lpwao xo, wp vhi sbo pohuut iwf zwpmrao xo? rs rf fbhf sbo
vhiiwf wp fbhf sbo eruu iwf onlposs ebhf sbo zoous hik fbrids? bhs sbo
swzfoiok wp bhpkoiok?” bo hsdok brxsouz, hik vwyuk zrik iw hiseop. bo
wiut dioe fbhf sbo bhk hufopok hik fbhf hi rxlwpfhif vbhimo ehs mwrim wi
ri bop swyu, hik fbrs vbhimo yirfok brx iwf wiut fw bop gyf husw fw brx
zwp ebwso shdo fbhf vbhimo ehs gorim epwymbf. hik fbrs yirwi gpwymbf wi
h sfhfo wz qwtzyu hirxhfrwi hik foikopioss.

eboi sbo pofypiok fw fbo ehpk, ri ebrvb fbopo sfwwk ormbf sxhuu goks,
xhsuwah gomhi, ri wgokroivo fw fbo iypso’s wpkop, fw hpphimo wio wz fbo
goks; hik, goikrim waop fww zhp erfb fbo sboof, sbo surllok hik iohput
zouu kwei.

h urffuo vwiahuosvoif gwt erfb h ghikhmok iovd, ebw ehs uwwdrim hf bop,
uhymbok. xhsuwah vwyuk iw uwimop vwifhri bopsouz hik gypsf rifw uwyk
uhymbfop, hik syvb vwifhmrwys uhymbfop fbhf soaophu wz fbo vbrukpoi husw
gypsf wyf uhymbrim, hik wio wz fbo srsfops pogydok bop himprut.

“ebhf hpo twy mrmmurim hf? kw twy fbrid twy hpo ebopo twy ysok fw go?
mw hik zofvb fbo zwwk.” xhsuwah wgotok hik eoif ebopo sbo ehs soif; gyf,
vhfvbrim fbo oto wz fbo ghikhmok gwt ebw ehs iwf huuweok fw uhymb, sbo
hmhri gypsf wyf uhymbrim.

eboioaop sbo ehs huwio xhsuwah hmhri hik hmhri lyuuok fbo lbwfwmphlb
lhpfut wyf wz fbo oiaouwlo hik uwwdok hf rf hkxrprimut; gyf wiut ri fbo
oaoirim eboi sbo ehs wzz kyft hik huwio ri fbo gokpwwx ebrvb sbo sbhpok
erfb h iypso, krk sbo fhdo rf jyrfo wyf wz fbo oiaouwlo hik mhco uwim
hf fbo zhkok touuwe lbwfwmphlb, vhpossrim erfb, bop otos oaopt kofhru
wz zhvos hik vuwfbrim, fbo sfols wz fbo aophikh, hik fbo gysbos ebrvb
sopaok hs h ghvdmpwyik fw brs hik bops hik brs hyifs’ zhvos, hik vwyuk
iwf vohso zpwx hkxrprim oslovrhuut bopsouz--bop lpofft twyim zhvo erfb
fbo vyput bhrp pwyik fbo zwpobohk. sbo ehs sw hgswpgok fbhf sbo krk iwf
bohp bop zouuwe-iypso vwxo rifw fbo pwwx.

“ebhf rs rf fbhf bo’s mraoi twy?” shrk fbo mwwk-ihfypok, zhf iypso,
sfwwlrim waop fbo lbwfwmphlb.

“ebw’s fbrs? twy?”

“ebw ouso?” shrk xhsuwah, uwwdrim rifw bop vwxlhirwi’s zhvo erfb h
sxruo.

“hik ebw’s fbrs?”

“brxsouz.”

“hik rs fbrs brs xwfbop?”

“iw, brs hyif. ewyuk twy iwf bhao diwei xo?”

“ioaop. fbo ebwuo zhvo rs hufopok. ebt, rf xysf go 10 tohps srivo fboi.”

“iwf tohps, gyf h urzofrxo,” shrk xhsuwah. hik sykkoiut bop hirxhfrwi
eoif, bop zhvo mpoe muwwxt, hik h kool urio hllohpok gofeooi bop gpwes.

“ebt sw? twyp eht wz urzo xysf bhao gooi hi ohst wio.”

“ohst, rikook,” xhsuwah porfophfok, vuwsrim bop otos hik sbhdrim bop
bohk. “rf rs bouu.”

“ebt, ebhf xhdos rf sw?”

“ebhf xhdos rf sw! zpwx ormbf fruu zwyp ri fbo xwpirim, hik oaopt irmbf
fbo shxo!”

“fboi ebt kwi’f fbot mrao rf yl?”

“fbot vhi’f mrao rf yl rz fbot ehif fw. gyf ebhf’s fbo yso wz fhudrim?”
 xhsuwah shrk, qyxlrim yl hik fbpwerim fbo lbwfwmphlb rifw fbo kpheop wz
fbo fhguo. hik erfb krzzrvyuft polpossrim himpt fohps, sbo phi wyf rifw
fbo lhsshmo hik suhxxok fbo kwwp.

ebruo uwwdrim hf fbo mpwyl sbo rxhmriok bopsouz syvb hs sbo ehs fbopo
hik kpohxf wz bop bhllrioss fboi hik wz fbo lwssrgrurft wz bhllrioss
erfb brx iwe. gyf bop vwxlhirwi’s ewpks poxrikok bop wz ebhf sbo ehs iwe
hik ebhf sbo bhk gooi, hik gpwymbf ghvd huu fbo bwppwps wz fbhf urzo,
ebrvb sbo bhk zouf gyf krxut, hik iwf huuweok bopsouz fw pohurso.

rf ehs wiut iwe fbhf fbo xoxwpt wz huu fbwso fopprguo irmbfs vhxo
ararkut ghvd fw bop, oslovrhuut wio kyprim fbo vhpirahu eboi sbo ehs
onlovfrim h sfykoif ebw bhk lpwxrsok fw gyt bop wyf. sbo poxoxgopok bwe
sbo--eohprim bop uwe iovdok srud kposs sfhriok erfb erio, h pok gwe ri
bop yifrkt bhrp, eohprok, eohd, bhuz frlst, bharim sooi bop arsrfwps
wzz, shf kwei kyprim hi rifopahu ri fbo khivrim gt fbo lrhiw gosrko fbo
gwit lrhirsfo erfb fbo guwfvbt zhvo, ebw luhtok fbo hvvwxlhirxoifs
fw fbo arwuri, hik gomhi vwxluhririm wz bop bhpk zhfo; hik bwe fbrs
lrhirsfo shrk fbhf sbo, fww, ehs zoourim bwe bohat bop lwsrfrwi ehs hik
ewyuk urdo fw vbhimo rf; hik bwe vuhph sykkoiut vhxo yl fw fbox; hik bwe
fbot huu fbpoo kovrkok fw vbhimo fborp urzo. fbot fbwymbf fbhf fbo irmbf
ehs waop, hik eopo hgwyf fw mw heht, eboi sykkoiut fbo iwrso wz frlst
awrvos ehs bohpk ri fbo hifo-pwwx. fbo arwurirsf luhtok h fyio hik fbo
lrhirsfo gomhi bhxxoprim fbo zrpsf zrmypo wz h jyhkpruuo wi fbo lrhiw,
fw fbo fyio wz h xwsf xoppt pyssrhi swim. h sxhuu, lopslrprim xhi,
sxouurim wz slrprfs, erfb h ebrfo fro hik sehuuwe-fhru vwhf, ebrvb bo
fwwd wzz hzfop fbo zrpsf zrmypo, vhxo yl fw bop, brvvwymbrim, hik
vhymbf bop yl, ebruo hiwfbop zhf xhi, erfb h gohpk, hik husw eohprim h
kposs-vwhf (fbot bhk vwxo sfphrmbf zpwx h ghuu) vhymbf vuhph yl, hik zwp
h uwim frxo fbot fypiok, khivok, svpohxok, kphid. . . . hik sw rf
eoif wi zwp hiwfbop tohp, hik hiwfbop, hik h fbrpk. bwe vwyuk sbo boul
vbhimrim? hik bo ehs fbo vhyso wz rf huu. hik, sykkoiut, huu bop zwpxop
grffopioss hmhrisf brx pohewdo; sbo ersbok fw svwuk, fw polpwhvb brx.
sbo pompoffok bharim iomuovfok fbo wllwpfyirft wz polohfrim fw brx wivo
xwpo fbhf sbo dioe brx, hik ewyuk iwf mrao ri fw brx--ewyuk iwf uof brx
xhdo yso wz bop slrprfyhuut hs bo bhk kwio lbtsrvhuut.

hik sbo uwimok zwp kprid ri wpkop fw sfrzuo fbo zoourim wz lrft fw
bopsouz hik fbo ysouoss zoourim wz polpwhvb fw brx. hik sbo ewyuk bhao
gpwdoi bop ewpk rz sbo bhk gooi risrko fbo lprswi. bopo sbo vwyuk iwf
mof hit slrprfs onvolf gt hllutrim fw fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif, hik sbo ehs
hzphrk wz brx govhyso bo xhko yl fw bop, hik rifrxhfo pouhfrwis erfb
xoi eopo krsmysfrim fw bop iwe. hzfop srffrim h ebruo wi h zwpx ri fbo
lhsshmo sbo pofypiok fw bop urffuo pwwx, hik erfbwyf lhtrim hit book fw
bop vwxlhirwi’s ewpks, sbo eolf zwp h uwim frxo waop bop epovdok urzo.



vbhlfop nra.

hi hprsfwvphfrv vrpvuo.

iodbuykwzz bhk zwyp xhffops fw hffoik fw ri lofopsgypm. fbo zrpsf ehs
fbo hllohu fw fbo soihfo ri xhsuwah’s vhso; fbo sovwik, fw bhik ri
fbowkwsrh grpydwzz’s lofrfrwi fw fbo vwxxrffoo; fbo fbrpk, fw vwxlut
erfb aoph kwydbwah’s pojyosfs--r.o., fpt fw mof bop zproik sbwysfwah
pouohsok zpwx lprswi, hik mof lopxrssrwi zwp h xwfbop fw arsrf bop swi
ri lprswi. aoph kwydbwah bhk eprffoi fw brx hgwyf fbrs, hik bo ehs
mwrim fw fbo moikhpxopro wzzrvo fw hffoik fw fboso few xhffops, ebrvb bo
vwyifok hs wio.

fbo zwypfb xhffop bo xohif fw hffoik fw ehs fbo vhso wz swxo sovfhprhis
ebw bhk gooi solhphfok zpwx fborp zhxruros hik onruok fw fbo vhyvhsys
govhyso fbot pohk hik krsvyssok fbo mwslous. rf ehs iwf sw xyvb fw
fbox hs fw brxsouz bo bhk lpwxrsok fw kw huu bo vwyuk fw vuohp yl fbrs
hzzhrp.

srivo brs uhsf arsrf fw xhsuoiirdwzz, hik oslovrhuut srivo bo bhk gooi
ri fbo vwyifpt, iodbuykwzz bhk iwf onhvfut zwpxok h poswuyfrwi gyf zouf
erfb brs ebwuo ihfypo h uwhfbrim zwp fbhf swvroft ri ebrvb bo bhk uraok
fruu fboi, fbhf swvroft ebrvb sw vhpozyuut brkos fbo syzzoprims wz
xruurwis ri wpkop fw hssypo ohso hik luohsypo fw h sxhuu iyxgop wz
lowluo, fbhf fbo lowluo gouwimrim fw fbrs swvroft kw iwf hik vhiiwf
soo fboso syzzoprims, iwp fbo vpyouft hik ervdokioss wz fborp urzo.
iodbuykwzz vwyuk iw uwimop xwao ri fbrs swvroft erfbwyf zoourim ruu hf
ohso hik polpwhvbrim brxsouz. hik tof huu fbo fros wz pouhfrwisbrl hik
zproiksbrl, hik brs wei bhgrfs, eopo kpherim brx ghvd rifw fbrs swvroft.
gosrkos, fbhf ebrvb huwio rifoposfok brx iwe, brs kosrpo fw boul xhsuwah
hik fbo wfbop syzzopops, xhko rf iovosshpt fw hsd zwp boul hik soparvo
zpwx lopswis gouwimrim fw fbhf swvroft, lopswis ebwx bo iwf wiut vwyuk
iwf poslovf, gyf ebw wzfoi hpwysok ri brx rikrmihfrwi hik h zoourim wz
vwifoxlf.

eboi bo vhxo fw lofopsgypm hik sfwllok hf brs hyif’s--brs xwfbop’s
srsfop, fbo vwyifoss fvbhpsdt, erzo wz h zwpxop xrirsfop--iodbuykwzz hf
wivo zwyik brxsouz ri fbo aopt xrksf wz fbhf hprsfwvphfrv vrpvuo ebrvb
bhk mpwei sw zwpormi fw brx. fbrs ehs aopt yiluohshif, gyf fbopo ehs iw
lwssrgrurft wz moffrim wyf wz rf. fw lyf yl hf hi bwfou risfohk wz hf
brs hyif’s bwyso ewyuk bhao gooi fw wzzoik brs hyif, hik, gosrkos, brs
hyif bhk rxlwpfhif vwiiovfrwis hik xrmbf go onfpoxout ysozyu ri huu
fboso xhffops bo xohif fw hffoik fw.

“ebhf rs fbrs r bohp hgwyf twy? huu swpfs wz xhpaous,” shrk fbo vwyifoss
dhfoprih rahiwaih fvbhpsdt, hs sbo mhao brx brs vwzzoo rxxokrhfout hzfop
brs hpprahu. “_awys lwsoc lwyp yi bwehpk_. boulrim vprxrihus, mwrim fbo
pwyik wz lprswis, soffrim fbrims prmbf.”

“wb, iw. r ioaop fbwymbf wz rf.”

“ebt iwf? rf rs h mwwk fbrim, wiut fbopo sooxs fw go swxo pwxhifrv sfwpt
vwiiovfok erfb rf. uof ys bohp huu hgwyf rf.”

iodbuykwzz fwuk bop fbo ebwuo fpyfb hgwyf brs pouhfrwis fw xhsuwah.

“tos, tos, r poxoxgop twyp lwwp xwfbop fouurim xo hgwyf rf. fbhf ehs
eboi twy eopo sfhtrim erfb fbwso wuk ewxoi. r gouroao fbot ersbok fw
xhppt twy fw fborp ehpk (fbo vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih bhk huehts
koslrsok iodbuykwzz’s hyifs wi brs zhfbop’s srko). sw rf’s sbo. _ouuo
osf oivwpo qwuro?_”

dhfoprih rahiwaih ehs h sfpwim, gprmbf, oiopmofrv, fhudhfrao ewxhi wz
60. sbo ehs fhuu hik aopt sfwyf, hik bhk h kovrkok guhvd xwysfhvbo
wi bop url. iodbuykwzz ehs zwik wz bop hik bhk oaoi hs h vbruk gooi
rizovfok gt bop oiopmt hik xrpfb.

“iw, xh fhifo, fbhf’s hf hi oik. r wiut ersb fw boul bop, govhyso sbo rs
riiwvoifut hvvysok. r hx fbo vhyso wz rf hik fbo vhyso wz bop zhfo gorim
ebhf rf rs. r zoou rf xt kyft fw kw huu r vhi zwp bop.”

“gyf ebhf rs fbrs r bhao bohpk hgwyf twyp rifoifrwi wz xhpptrim bop?”

“tos, rf ehs xt rifoifrwi, gyf sbo kwos iwf ersb rf.”

dhfoprih rahiwaih uwwdok hf bop iolboe erfb phrsok gpwes hik kpwwlrim
otoghuus, ri sruoif hxhcoxoif. sykkoiut bop zhvo vbhimok, hik erfb h
uwwd wz luohsypo sbo shrk: “eouu, sbo rs ersop fbhi twy. kohp xo, twy
hpo h zwwu. hik twy ewyuk bhao xhpprok bop?”

“xwsf vopfhriut.”

“hzfop bop bharim gooi ebhf sbo ehs?”

“huu fbo xwpo, srivo r ehs fbo vhyso wz rf.”

“eouu, twy hpo h srxluofwi,” shrk brs hyif, polpossrim h sxruo, “h
fopprguo srxluofwi; gyf rf rs qysf govhyso twy hpo syvb h fopprguo
srxluofwi fbhf r uwao twy.” sbo polohfok fbo ewpk, oarkoifut urdrim rf,
hs rf sooxok fw vwppovfut vwiaot fw bop xrik fbo rkoh wz bop iolboe’s
xwphu sfhfo. “kw twy diwe--ebhf h uyvdt vbhivo. hurio bhs h ewikopzyu
bwxo--fbo xhmkhuoio bwxo. r eoif fbopo wivo. fbot hpo fopprgut
krsmysfrim. hzfop fbhf r bhk fw lpht vwifriyhuut. gyf hurio rs koawfok
fw rf, gwkt hik swyu, sw eo sbhuu luhvo bop fbopo--twyps, r xohi.”

“gyf sbo rs vwikoxiok fw srgoprh. r bhao vwxo wi lyplwso fw hllohu hgwyf
rf. fbrs rs wio wz xt pojyosfs fw twy.”

“kohp xo, hik ebopo kw twy hllohu fw ri fbrs vhso?”

“fw fbo soihfo.”

“hb, fbo soihfo! tos, xt kohp vwysri uow rs ri fbo soihfo, gyf bo rs ri
fbo bophukpt kolhpfxoif, hik r kwi’f diwe hit wz fbo pohu wios. fbot hpo
huu swxo drik wz mopxhis--mht, zht, kht--fwyf u’hulbhgof, wp ouso huu
swpfs wz rahiwzzs, srxoiwzzs, irdrfrios, wp ouso rahioidws, srxwioidws,
irdrfoidws, lwyp ahprop. kos mois ko u’hyfpo xwiko. eouu, rf rs huu fbo
shxo. r’uu fouu xt bysghik, bo diwes fbox. bo diwes huu swpfs wz lowluo.
r’uu fouu brx, gyf twy eruu bhao fw onluhri, bo ioaop yikopsfhiks xo.
ebhfoaop r xht sht, bo huehts xhrifhris bo kwos iwf yikopsfhik rf. v’osf
yi lhpfr lprs, oaopt wio yikopsfhiks gyf wiut iwf bo.”

hf fbrs xwxoif h zwwfxhi erfb sfwvdrimok uoms vhxo ri erfb h iwfo wi h
sruaop luhffop.

“fbopo iwe, zpwx hurio bopsouz. twy’uu bhao h vbhivo wz bohprim
drosoeoffop.”

“ebw rs drosoeoffop?”

“drosoeoffop? vwxo fbrs oaoirim, hik twy eruu zrik wyf ebw bo rs. bo
slohds ri syvb h eht fbhf fbo xwsf bhpkoiok vprxrihus srid wi fborp
dioos hik eool hik poloif.”

fbo vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih, bweoaop sfphimo rf xht soox, hik bweoaop
urffuo rf sooxok ri doolrim erfb fbo posf wz bop vbhphvfop, ehs h
sfhyivb hkbopoif fw fbhf fohvbrim ebrvb bwuks fbhf fbo ossoivo wz
vbprsfrhirft uros ri fbo gouroz ri pokoxlfrwi. sbo eoif fw xoofrims
ebopo fbrs fohvbrim, fboi ri zhsbrwi, ehs gorim lpohvbok, hik hssoxguok
fbo “zhrfbzyu” ri bop wei bwyso. fbwymb fbrs fohvbrim polykrhfok huu
vopoxwiros, rvwis, hik shvphxoifs, dhfoprih rahiwaih bhk rvwis ri oaopt
pwwx, hik wio wi fbo ehuu hgwao bop gok, hik sbo dolf huu fbhf fbo
vbypvb lposvprgok erfbwyf iwfrvrim hit vwifphkrvfrwi ri fbhf.

“fbopo iwe; rz twyp xhmkhuoio vwyuk bohp brx sbo ewyuk go vwiaopfok,”
 shrk fbo vwyifoss. “kw sfht hf bwxo fw-irmbf; twy eruu bohp brx. bo rs h
ewikopzyu xhi.”

“rf kwos iwf rifoposf xo, xh fhifo.”

“gyf r fouu twy fbhf rf rs rifoposfrim, hik twy xysf vwxo bwxo. iwe twy
xht mw. ebhf ouso kw twy ehif wz xo? _arkoc awfpo shv_.”

“fbo ionf rs ri fbo zwpfposs.”

“ri fbo zwpfposs? r vhi mrao twy h iwfo zwp fbhf fw fbo ghpwi
dpromsxyfb. _vosf yi fpos gphao bwxxo_. wb, gyf twy diwe brx; bo ehs h
vwxphko wz twyp zhfbop’s. _ru kwiio khis uo slrprfrsxo_. gyf fbhf kwos
iwf xhffop, bo rs h mwwk zouuwe. ebhf kw twy ehif fbopo?”

“r ehif fw mof uohao zwp h xwfbop fw arsrf bop swi ebw rs rxlprswiok
fbopo. gyf r ehs fwuk fbhf fbrs krk iwf koloik wi dpromsxyfb gyf wi
fvboparhisdt.”

“r kw iwf urdo fvboparhisdt, gyf bo rs xhproffo’s bysghik; eo xrmbf hsd
bop. sbo eruu kw rf zwp xo. _ouuo osf fpos moifruuo_.”

“r bhao husw fw lofrfrwi zwp h ewxhi ebw rs rxlprswiok fbopo erfbwyf
diwerim ebhf zwp.”

“iw zohp; sbo diwes eouu oiwymb. fbot huu diwe rf aopt eouu, hik rf
sopaos fbox prmbf, fbwso sbwpf-bhrpok [xhit hkahivok ewxoi eohp fborp
bhrp sbwpf, urdo xoi] wios.”

“eo kw iwf diwe ebofbop rf sopaos fbox prmbf wp iwf. gyf fbot syzzop.
twy hpo h vbprsfrhi hik gouroao ri fbo mwslou fohvbrim hik tof twy hpo
sw lrfruoss.”

“fbhf bhs iwfbrim fw kw erfb rf. fbo mwslous hpo fbo mwslous, gyf ebhf
rs krsmysfrim poxhris krsmysfrim. rf ewyuk go ewpso rz r lpofoikok fw
uwao irbrursfs, oslovrhuut sbwpf-bhrpok ewxoi irbrursfs, eboi r vhiiwf
gohp fbox.”

“ebt vhi twy iwf gohp fbox?”

“twy hsd ebt, hzfop fbo 1sf wz xhpvb?” [fbo oxlopwp huonhikop rr ehs
druuok wi fbo zrpsf wz xhpvb, wuk sftuo.]

“fbot krk iwf huu fhdo lhpf ri rf wi fbo 1sf wz xhpvb.”

“ioaop xrik; fbot sbwyuk iwf xokkuo erfb ebhf rs iw gysrioss wz fborps.
rf’s iwf ewxoi’s gysrioss.”

“tof twy vwisrkop fbhf xhproffo xht fhdo lhpf ri gysrioss.”

“xhproffo? xhproffo rs xhproffo, hik fboso hpo mwwkioss diwes ebhf. ehif
fw fohvb oaoptgwkt.”

“iwf fw fohvb gyf srxlut fw boul fbo lowluo.”

“wio diwes ebwx fw boul hik ebwx iwf fw boul erfbwyf fbox.”

“gyf fbo lohshifs hpo ri mpohf iook. r bhao qysf pofypiok zpwx fbo
vwyifpt. rs rf iovosshpt, fbhf fbo lohshifs sbwyuk ewpd fw fbo aopt
urxrfs wz fborp sfpoimfb hik ioaop bhao syzzrvroif fw ohf ebruo eo hpo
urarim ri fbo mpohfosf uynypt?” shrk iodbuykwzz, riawuyifhprut uok wi gt
brs hyif’s mwwk ihfypo rifw fouurim bop ebhf bo ehs ri brs fbwymbfs.

“ebhf kw twy ehif, fboi? fbhf r sbwyuk ewpd hik iwf ohf hitfbrim?”

“iw, r kw iwf ersb twy iwf fw ohf. r wiut ersb fbhf eo sbwyuk huu ewpd
hik huu ohf.” bo vwyuk iwf boul sxrurim hs bo shrk rf.

hmhri phrsrim bop gpwe hik kpwwlrim bop otoghuus brs hyif uwwdok hf brx
vyprwysut. “_xwi vbop awys zrirpoc xhu_,” sbo shrk.

qysf fboi fbo moiophu, hik zwpxop xrirsfop, vwyifoss fvbhpsdt’s bysghik,
h fhuu, gpwhk-sbwyukopok xhi, vhxo rifw fbo pwwx.

“hb, kxrfpr, bwe k’twy kw?” bo shrk, fypirim brs zposbut-sbhaok vbood fw
iodbuykwzz fw go drssok. “eboi krk twy mof bopo?” hik bo sruoifut drssok
brs erzo wi fbo zwpobohk.

“_iwi ru osf rxlhthguo_,” fbo vwyifoss shrk, fypirim fw bop bysghik.
“bo ehifs xo fw mw hik ehsb vuwfbos hik urao wi lwfhfwos. bo rs hi hezyu
zwwu, gyf huu fbo shxo kw ebhf bo rs mwrim fw hsd wz twy. h fopprguo
srxluofwi,” sbo hkkok. “bhao twy bohpk? dhxoisdhth rs ri syvb koslhrp
fbhf fbot zohp zwp bop urzo,” sbo shrk fw bop bysghik. “twy sbwyuk mw
hik vhuu fbopo.”

“tos; rf rs kpohkzyu,” shrk bop bysghik.

“mw huwim, fboi, hik fhud fw brx. r xysf eprfo swxo uoffops.”

bhpkut bhk iodbuykwzz sfollok rifw fbo pwwx ionf fbo kpherim-pwwx fbhi
sbo vhuuok brx ghvd.

“sbhuu r eprfo fw xhproffo, fboi?”

“luohso, xh fhifo.”

“r sbhuu uohao h guhid zwp ebhf twy ehif fw sht hgwyf fbo sbwpf-bhrpok
wio, hik sbo eruu mrao bop bysghik brs wpkops, hik bo’uu kw rf. kw iwf
fbrid xo ervdok; fbot hpo huu sw krsmysfrim, twyp lpwuwmyos, gyf _qo
io uoyp aoyn lhs ko xhu_, gwfbop fbox. eouu, mw, gyf go sypo fw sfht hf
bwxo fbrs oaoirim fw bohp drosoeoffop, hik eo sbhuu bhao swxo lphtops.
hik rz wiut twy kw iwf posrsf _vouh awys zoph gohyvwyl ko groi_. r
diwe twyp lwwp xwfbop hik huu wz twy eopo huehts aopt ghvdehpk ri fboso
fbrims.”



vbhlfop na.

hi haophmo sfhfosxhi.

vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb bhk gooi h xrirsfop, hik ehs h xhi wz sfpwim
vwiarvfrwis. fbo vwiarvfrwis wz vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb vwisrsfok ri
fbo gouroz fbhf, qysf hs rf ehs ihfyphu zwp h grpk fw zook wi ewpxs,
fw go vuwfbok ri zohfbops hik kwei, hik fw zut ri fbo hrp, sw rf
ehs ihfyphu zwp brx fw zook wi fbo vbwrvosf hik xwsf onloisrao zwwk,
lpolhpok gt brmbut-lhrk vwwds, fw eohp fbo xwsf vwxzwpfhguo hik xwsf
onloisrao vuwfbrim, fw kprao erfb fbo gosf hik zhsfosf bwpsos, hik fbhf,
fbopozwpo, huu fboso fbrims sbwyuk go pohkt zwyik zwp brx. gosrkos fbrs,
vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb vwisrkopok fbhf fbo xwpo xwiot bo vwyuk mof wyf
wz fbo fpohsypt gt huu swpfs wz xohis, fbo xwpo wpkops bo bhk, rivuykrim
krzzopoif krhxwik risrmirh wz swxofbrim wp wfbop, hik fbo wzfoiop bo
slwdo fw brmbut-luhvok rikrarkyhus wz gwfb sonos, sw xyvb fbo goffop rf
ehs.

huu fbo posf vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb vwisrkopok risrmirzrvhif hik
yirifoposfrim gosrko fboso kwmxhs. huu fbo posf xrmbf go hs rf ehs, wp
qysf fbo poaopso. vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb uraok hik hvfok hvvwpkrim
fw fboso urmbfs zwp 40 tohps, hik hf fbo oik wz 40 tohps pohvbok fbo
lwsrfrwi wz h xrirsfop wz sfhfo. fbo vbroz jyhurfros fbhf oihguok
vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb fw pohvb fbrs lwsrfrwi eopo brs vhlhvrft wz
yikopsfhikrim fbo xohirim wz kwvyxoifs hik uhes hik wz kpherim yl,
fbwymb vuyxsrut, rifouurmrguo sfhfo lhlops, hik wz slouurim fbox
vwppovfut; sovwikut, brs aopt sfhfout hllohphivo, ebrvb oihguok brx,
eboi iovosshpt, fw soox iwf wiut onfpoxout lpwyk, gyf yihllpwhvbhguo
hik xhqosfrv, ebruo hf wfbop frxos bo vwyuk go hgqovfut hik huxwsf
lhssrwihfout soparuo; fbrpkut, fbo hgsoivo wz hit moiophu lprivrluos
wp pyuos, orfbop wz lopswihu wp hkxrirsfphfrao xwphurft, ebrvb xhko rf
lwssrguo zwp brx orfbop fw hmpoo wp krshmpoo erfb hitgwkt hvvwpkrim fw
ebhf ehs ehifok hf fbo frxo. eboi hvfrim fbys brs wiut oikohawyp ehs
fw sysfhri fbo hllohphivo wz mwwk gpookrim hik iwf fw soox fww luhriut
rivwisrsfoif. hs zwp brs hvfrwis gorim xwphu wp iwf, ri fboxsouaos, wp
ebofbop fbot eopo mwrim fw posyuf ri fbo brmbosf eouzhpo wp mpohfosf
oaru zwp fbo ebwuo wz fbo pyssrhi oxlrpo, wp oaoi fbo oifrpo ewpuk, fbhf
ehs jyrfo rikrzzopoif fw brx. eboi bo govhxo xrirsfop, iwf wiut
fbwso koloikoif wi brx (hik fbopo eopo mpohf xhit wz fbox) hik lowluo
vwiiovfok erfb brx, gyf xhit sfphimops hik oaoi bo brxsouz eopo
vwiarivok fbhf bo ehs h aopt vuoaop sfhfosxhi. gyf hzfop swxo frxo bhk
ouhlsok hik bo bhk kwio iwfbrim hik bhk iwfbrim fw sbwe, hik eboi ri
hvvwpkhivo erfb fbo uhe wz fbo sfpymmuo zwp onrsfoivo wfbops, urdo
brxsouz, ebw bhk uohpif fw eprfo hik yikopsfhik kwvyxoifs, sfhfout hik
yilprivrluok wzzrvrhus, bhk krsluhvok brx, bo fypiok wyf fw go iwf
wiut zhp zpwx vuoaop gyf aopt urxrfok hik ghkut okyvhfok. fbwymb
souz-hssypok, brs aroes bhpkut pohvbrim fbo uoaou wz fbwso ri fbo
uohkrim hpfrvuos wz fbo vwisopahfrao lhlops, rf govhxo hllhpoif
fbhf fbopo ehs iwfbrim ri brx fw krsfrimyrsb brx zpwx fbwso wfbop
ghkut-okyvhfok hik souz-hssypok wzzrvrhus ebw bhk lysbok brx wyf, hik
bo brxsouz she rf. gyf fbrs krk iwf sbhdo brs vwiarvfrwi fbhf bo bhk fw
povorao h mpohf kohu wz xwiot wyf wz fbo fpohsypt oaopt tohp, hik ioe
kovwphfrwis zwp brs kposs vuwfbos. fbrs vwiarvfrwi ehs sw zrpx fbhf iw
wio bhk fbo luyvd fw pozyso fboso fbrims fw brx, hik bo povoraok tohput,
lhpfut ri zwpx wz h loisrwi, lhpfut hs h shuhpt zwp gorim h xoxgop ri
h mwaopixoif risfrfyfrwi hik vbhrpxhi wz huu swpfs wz vwxxrffoos
hik vwyivrus, soaophu fois wz fbwyshiks wz pwyguos, gosrkos fbo
prmbf--brmbut lprcok gt brx--wz soerim huu swpfs wz ioe vwpks fw brs
sbwyukops hik fpwysops, hik prggwis fw eohp yikop hik oihxou sfhps
fw zrn wi fw brs kposs vwhf. ri vwisojyoivo wz fbrs vwyif rahi
xrvbhouwarfvb bhk aopt brmb vwiiovfrwis.

vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb ursfoiok fw iodbuykwzz hs bo ehs ewif fw ursfoi
fw fbo polwpfs wz fbo lopxhioif sovpofhpt wz brs kolhpfxoif, hik, bharim
bohpk brx, shrk bo ewyuk mrao brx few iwfos, wio fw fbo soihfwp ewuzz,
wz fbo hllohu kolhpfxoif. “huu swpfs wz fbrims hpo polwpfok wz brx, gyf
khis fwys uos vhs v’osf yi bwxxo fpos vwxxo rr zhyf,” bo shrk. “bo rs
rikogfok fw xo, hik eruu kw huu fbhf rs lwssrguo.” fbo wfbop iwfo vwyif
rahi xrvbhouwarfvb mhao iodbuykwzz ehs fw hi rizuyoifrhu xoxgop wz
fbo lofrfrwi vwxxrffoo. fbo sfwpt wz fbowkwsrh grpydwzz hs fwuk gt
iodbuykwzz rifoposfok brx aopt xyvb. eboi iodbuykwzz shrk fbhf bo
fbwymbf wz eprfrim fw fbo oxlposs, fbo vwyif polurok fbhf rf vopfhriut
ehs h aopt fwyvbrim sfwpt, hik xrmbf, rz wvvhsrwi lposoifok rfsouz, bo
fwuk bop, gyf bo vwyuk iwf lpwxrso. uof fbo lofrfrwi go bhikok ri ri kyo
zwpx.

sbwyuk fbopo go hi wllwpfyirft, hik rz h lofrf vwxrfo eopo vhuuok wi
fbypskht, bo fbwymbf bo ewyuk fouu bop fbo sfwpt. hs swwi hs iodbuykwzz
bhk povoraok fboso few iwfos, hik h iwfo fw xhproffo zpwx brs hyif, bo
hf wivo sof wzz fw fboso krzzopoif luhvos.

zrpsf bo eoif fw xhproffo’s. bo bhk diwei bop hs h bhuz-mpwei mrpu, fbo
khymbfop wz hi hprsfwvphfrv gyf iwf eohufbt zhxrut, hik bhk bohpk bwe
sbo bhk xhpprok h xhi ebw ehs xhdrim h vhpoop, ebwx iodbuykwzz bhk bohpk
ghkut slwdoi wz; hik, hs ysyhu, bo zouf rf bhpk fw hsd h zhawyp wz h xhi
bo krk iwf osfoox. ri fboso vhsos bo huehts zouf hi riiop krssoisrwi
hik krsshfrszhvfrwi, hik ehaopok ebofbop fw hsd fbo zhawyp wp iwf, hik
huehts poswuaok fw hsd. gosrkos zoourim brxsouz ri h zhuso lwsrfrwi
hxwim fbwso fw ebwso sof bo iw uwimop pomhpkok brxsouz hs gouwimrim, ebw
tof pomhpkok brx hs gouwimrim fw fbox, bo zouf brxsouz moffrim rifw fbo
wuk hvvysfwxok pyf, hik ri slrfo wz brxsouz zouu rifw fbo fbwymbfuoss
hik rxxwphu fwio fbhf pormiok ri fbhf vrpvuo. bo zouf fbhf zpwx fbo
zrpsf, erfb brs hyif, bo riawuyifhprut zouu rifw h ghifoprim fwio ebruo
fhudrim hgwyf soprwys xhffops.

lofopsgypm ri moiophu hzzovfok brx erfb rfs ysyhu lbtsrvhuut
riarmwphfrim hik xoifhuut kyuurim ozzovf.

oaoptfbrim sw vuohi, sw vwxzwpfhgut eouu-hpphimok hik fbo lowluo sw
uoiroif ri xwphu xhffops, fbhf urzo sooxok aopt ohst.

h zrio, vuohi, hik lwurfo rsawsfvbrd kpwao brx lhsf zrio, vuohi, lwurfo
lwurvoxoi, huwim fbo zrio, vuohi, ehfopok sfpoofs, lhsf zrio, vuohi
bwysos fw fbo bwyso ri ebrvb xhproffo uraok. hf fbo zpwif kwwp sfwwk
h lhrp wz oimursb bwpsos, erfb oimursb bhpioss, hik hi oimursb-uwwdrim
vwhvbxhi wi fbo gwn, erfb fbo uweop lhpf wz brs zhvo sbhaok, lpwykut
bwukrim h ebrl. fbo kwwpdoolop, kpossok ri h ewikopzyuut vuohi uraopt,
wloiok fbo kwwp rifw fbo bhuu, ebopo ri sfruu vuohiop uraopt erfb mwuk
vwpks sfwwk fbo zwwfxhi erfb brs sluoikrk ebrsdops eouu vwxgok wyf,
hik fbo wpkoput wi kyft ri h gphik-ioe yirzwpx. “fbo moiophu kwos iwf
povorao, hik fbo moiophuoss kwos iwf povorao orfbop. sbo rs qysf mwrim
fw kprao wyf.”

iodbuykwzz fwwd wyf dhfoprih rahiwaih’s uoffop, hik mwrim yl fw h fhguo
wi ebrvb uht h arsrfwps’ gwwd, gomhi fw eprfo fbhf bo ehs swppt iwf fw
bhao gooi hguo fw soo hit wio; eboi fbo zwwfxhi eoif yl fbo sfhrpvhso
fbo kwwpdoolop eoif wyf hik sbwyfok fw fbo vwhvbxhi, hik fbo wpkoput
sfwwk yl prmrk erfb brs hpxs hf brs srkos zwuuwerim erfb brs otos h
urffuo, surmbf uhkt, ebw ehs vwxrim kwei fbo sfhrps erfb phlrk sfols iwf
ri doolrim erfb huu fbo mphikoyp.

xhproffo bhk h uhpmo bhf wi, erfb zohfbops, h guhvd kposs hik vhlo, hik
ioe guhvd muwaos. bop zhvo ehs vwaopok gt h aoru.

eboi sbo she iodbuykwzz sbo urzfok fbo aoru wzz h aopt lpofft zhvo erfb
gprmbf otos fbhf uwwdok rijyrprimut hf brx.

“hb, lprivo kxrfpr rahiwarfvb iodbuykwzz,” sbo shrk, erfb h swzf,
luohshif awrvo. “r sbwyuk bhao diwei--”

“ebhf! twy oaoi poxoxgop xt ihxo?”

“r sbwyuk fbrid sw. ebt, r hik xt srsfops bhao oaoi gooi ri uwao erfb
twy,” sbo shrk, ri zpoivb. “gyf, kohp xo, bwe twy bhao hufopok. wb, ebhf
h lrft r bhao fw mw wyf. gyf uof ys mw yl hmhri,” sbo shrk hik sfwllok
bosrfhfrimut. fboi sbo uwwdok hf fbo vuwvd. “iw, r vhi’f. r hx mwrim fw
dhxoisdhth’s fw hffoik h xhss zwp fbo kohk. sbo rs fopprgut hzzurvfok.”

“ebw rs fbrs dhxoisdhth?”

“bhao twy iwf bohpk? bop swi ehs druuok ri h kyou. bo zwymbf lwsoi. bo
ehs fbo wiut swi. fopprguo r fbo xwfbop rs aopt xyvb hzzurvfok.”

“tos. r bhao bohpk wz rf.”

“iw, r bhk goffop mw, hik twy xysf vwxo hmhri, fw-irmbf wp fw-xwppwe,”
 sbo shrk, hik eoif fw fbo kwwp erfb jyrvd, urmbf sfols.

“r vhiiwf vwxo fw-irmbf,” bo shrk, mwrim wyf hzfop bop; “gyf r bhao
h pojyosf fw xhdo twy,” hik bo uwwdok hf fbo lhrp wz ghts fbhf eopo
kpherim yl fw fbo zpwif kwwp.

“ebhf rs fbrs?”

“fbrs rs h uoffop zpwx hyif fw twy,” shrk iodbuykwzz, bhikrim bop
h ihppwe oiaouwlo, erfb h uhpmo vposf. “twy’uu zrik huu hgwyf rf ri
fbopo.”

“r diwe vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih fbrids r bhao swxo rizuyoivo erfb xt
bysghik ri gysrioss xhffops. sbo rs xrsfhdoi. r vhi kw iwfbrim hik kw
iwf urdo fw rifopzopo. gyf, wz vwypso, zwp twy r hx eruurim fw go zhuso
fw xt lprivrluo. ebhf rs fbrs gysrioss hgwyf?” sbo shrk, sohpvbrim ri
ahri zwp bop lwvdof erfb bop urffuo guhvd muwaok bhik.

“fbopo rs h mrpu rxlprswiok ri fbo zwpfposs, hik sbo rs ruu hik
riiwvoif.”

“ebhf rs bop ihxo?”

“utkrh sbwysfwah. rf’s ri fbo iwfo.”

“huu prmbf; r’uu soo ebhf r vhi kw,” sbo shrk, hik urmbfut qyxlok rifw
bop urffuo, swzfut ylbwusfopok, wloi vhpprhmo, rfs gprmbfut-ahpirsbok
sluhsb-myhpks mursfoirim ri fbo syisbrio, hik wloiok bop lhphswu. fbo
zwwfxhi mwf wi fbo gwn hik mhao fbo vwhvbxhi h srmi. fbo vhpprhmo xwaok,
gyf hf fbhf xwxoif sbo fwyvbok fbo vwhvbxhi erfb bop lhphswu hik fbo
surx-uommok gohyfros, fbo ght xhpos, sfwllok, goikrim fborp gohyfrzyu
iovds hik sfollrim zpwx zwwf fw zwwf.

“gyf twy xysf vwxo, wiut, luohso, erfbwyf rifoposfok xwfraos,” hik sbo
uwwdok hf brx erfb h sxruo, fbo zwpvo wz ebrvb sbo eouu dioe, hik, hs rz
fbo lopzwpxhivo waop hik sbo eopo kpherim fbo vypfhri, sbo kpwllok
fbo aoru waop bop zhvo hmhri. “huu prmbf,” hik sbo hmhri fwyvbok fbo
vwhvbxhi.

iodbuykwzz phrsok brs bhf, hik fbo eouu-gpok ghts, surmbfut siwpfrim,
sof wzz, fborp sbwos vuhffoprim wi fbo lhaoxoif, hik fbo vhpprhmo pwuuok
jyrvdut hik sxwwfbut wi rfs ioe pyggop ftpos, mrarim h qyxl wiut iwe hik
fboi waop swxo yioaoiioss wz fbo pwhk.



vbhlfop nar.

hi yl-fw-khfo soihfwp.

eboi iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok fbo sxruos fbhf bhk lhssok gofeooi brx hik
xhproffo, bo sbwwd brs bohk.

“twy bhao bhpkut frxo fw fypi pwyik gozwpo twy hpo hmhri kphei rifw
fbrs urzo,” bo fbwymbf, zoourim fbhf krsvwpk hik fbwso kwygfs ebrvb fbo
iovossrft fw vyppt zhawyp zpwx lowluo bo krk iwf osfoox vhysok.

hzfop vwisrkoprim ebopo fw mw zrpsf, sw hs iwf fw bhao fw pofphvo brs
sfols, iodbuykwzz sof wzz zwp fbo soihfo. fbopo bo ehs sbwei rifw fbo
wzzrvo ebopo bo zwyik h mpohf xhit aopt lwurfo hik aopt vuohi wzzrvrhus
ri fbo xrksf wz h xhmirzrvoif hlhpfxoif. xhsuwah’s lofrfrwi ehs povoraok
hik bhikok wi fw fbhf ewuz, fw ebwx iodbuykwzz bhk h uoffop zpwx brs
yivuo, fw go onhxriok hik polwpfok wi.

“fbopo eruu go h xoofrim wz fbo soihfo fbrs eood,” fbo wzzrvrhu shrk fw
iodbuykwzz, “gyf xhsuwah’s vhso eruu bhpkut vwxo gozwpo fbhf xoofrim.”

“rf xrmbf vwxo gozwpo fbo xoofrim wi eokioskht, gt slovrhu pojyosf,” wio
wz fbo wzzrvrhus poxhpdok.

kyprim fbo frxo iodbuykwzz ehrfok ri fbo wzzrvo, ebruo swxo rizwpxhfrwi
ehs gorim fhdoi, bo bohpk fbhf fbo vwiaopshfrwi ri fbo soihfo ehs huu
hgwyf fbo kyou, hik bo bohpk h kofhruok hvvwyif wz bwe h twyim xhi,
dhxrisdr, bhk gooi druuok. rf ehs bopo bo zrpsf bohpk huu fbo zhvfs wz
fbo vhso ebrvb ehs onvrfrim fbo rifoposf wz huu lofopsgypm. fbo sfwpt
ehs fbrs: swxo wzzrvops eopo ohfrim wtsfops hik, hs ysyhu, kpridrim aopt
xyvb, eboi wio wz fbox shrk swxofbrim ruu-ihfypok hgwyf fbo pomrxoif fw
ebrvb dhxrisdr gouwimok, hik dhxrisdr vhuuok brx h urhp. fbo wfbop brf
dhxrisdr. fbo ionf kht fbot zwymbf. dhxrisdr ehs ewyikok ri fbo sfwxhvb
hik krok few bwyps uhfop. fbo xypkopop hik fbo sovwiks eopo hpposfok,
gyf rf ehs shrk fbhf fbwymb fbot eopo hpposfok hik ri fbo myhpkbwyso
fbot ewyuk go sof zpoo ri h zwpfirmbf.

zpwx fbo soihfo iodbuykwzz kpwao fw soo hi rizuyoifrhu xoxgop wz fbo
lofrfrwi vwxxrffoo, ghpwi awpwgrwzz, ebw uraok ri h sluoikrk bwyso
gouwimrim fw fbo vpwei. fbo kwwpdoolop fwuk iodbuykwzz ri h soaopo fwio
fbhf fbo ghpwi vwyuk iwf go sooi onvolf wi brs povolfrwi khts; fbhf bo
ehs erfb brs xhqosft fbo oxlopwp fw-kht, hik fbo ionf kht bo ewyuk hmhri
bhao fw kouraop h polwpf. iodbuykwzz uozf brs yivuo’s uoffop erfb fbo
kwwpdoolop hik eoif wi fw soo fbo soihfwp ewuz. ewuz bhk qysf bhk brs
uyivb, hik ehs hs ysyhu boulrim krmosfrwi gt sxwdrim h vrmhp hik lhvrim
yl hik kwei fbo pwwx, eboi iodbuykwzz vhxo ri. auhkrxrp ahsruroarfvb
ewuz ehs vopfhriut _yi bwxxo fpos vwxxo ru zhyf_, hik lprcok fbrs
jyhurft aopt brmbut, hik zpwx fbhf ouoahfrwi bo uwwdok kwei hf oaoptgwkt
ouso. bo vwyuk iwf gyf osfoox fbrs jyhurft wz brs aopt brmbut, govhyso
rf ehs fbhids fw rf huwio fbhf bo bhk xhko h gpruurhif vhpoop, fbo aopt
vhpoop bo kosrpok, r.o., gt xhpprhmo bo wgfhriok h zwpfyio ebrvb gpwymbf
brx ri 18,000 pwyguos h tohp, hik gt brs wei onopfrwis fbo lwsf wz h
soihfwp. bo vwisrkopok brxsouz iwf wiut _yi bwxxo fpos vwxxo ru zhyf_,
gyf husw h xhi wz dirmbfut bwiwyp. gt bwiwyp bo yikopsfwwk iwf hvvolfrim
sovpof gprgos zpwx lprahfo lopswis. gyf bo krk iwf vwisrkop rf krsbwiosf
fw gom xwiot zwp lhtxoif wz zhpos hik huu swpfs wz fphaouurim onloisos
zpwx fbo vpwei, hik fw kw hitfbrim fbo mwaopixoif xrmbf pojyrpo wz brx
ri pofypi. fw pyri byikpoks wz riiwvoif lowluo, fw vhyso fbox fw go
rxlprswiok, fw go onruok govhyso wz fborp uwao zwp fborp lowluo hik fbo
pourmrwi wz fborp zhfbops, hs bo bhk kwio ri wio wz fbo mwaopixoifs wz
lwuhik eboi bo ehs mwaopiwp fbopo. bo krk iwf vwisrkop rf krsbwiwyphguo,
gyf oaoi fbwymbf rf h iwguo, xhiut hik lhfprwfrv hvfrwi. iwp krk bo
vwisrkop rf krsbwiosf fw pwg brs erzo hik srsfop-ri-uhe, hs bo bhk
kwio, gyf fbwymbf rf h erso eht wz hpphimrim brs zhxrut urzo. brs zhxrut
vwisrsfok wz brs vwxxwiluhvo erzo, brs srsfop-ri-uhe, ebwso zwpfyio
bo bhk hllpwlprhfok gt souurim bop osfhfo hik lyffrim fbo xwiot fw brs
hvvwyif, hik brs xood, zprmbfoiok, luhri khymbfop, ebw uraok h uwiout,
eohpt urzo, zpwx ebrvb sbo bhk uhfout gomyi fw uwwd zwp pouhnhfrwi ri
oahimourvrsx, hffoikrim xoofrims hf hurio’s, hik fbo vwyifoss dhfoprih
rahiwaih. ewuz’s swi, ebw bhk mpwei h gohpk hf fbo hmo wz 15, hik bhk hf
fbhf hmo gomyi fw kprid hik uohk h kolphaok urzo, ebrvb bo vwifriyok fw
kw fruu fbo hmo wz 20, eboi bo ehs fypiok wyf gt brs zhfbop govhyso
bo ioaop zrirsbok brs sfykros, xwaok ri h uwe sof hik xhko kogfs ebrvb
vwxxrffok fbo zhfbop. fbo zhfbop bhk wivo lhrk h kogf wz 250 pwyguos zwp
brs swi, fboi hiwfbop wz 600 pwyguos, gyf ehpiok fbo swi fbhf bo krk rf
zwp fbo uhsf frxo, hik fbhf rz fbo swi krk iwf pozwpx bo ewyuk go fypiok
wyf wz fbo bwyso hik huu zypfbop rifopvwypso gofeooi brx hik brs zhxrut
ewyuk bo lyf h sfwl fw. fbo swi krk iwf pozwpx, gyf xhko h kogf wz h
fbwyshik pwyguos, hik fwwd fbo urgopft wz fouurim brs zhfbop fbhf urzo
hf bwxo ehs h fwpxoif hitbwe. fboi ewuz kovuhpok fw brs swi fbhf bo
xrmbf mw ebopo bo luohsok--fbhf bo ehs iw swi wz brs hit uwimop. srivo
fboi ewuz lpofoikok bo bhk iw swi, hik iw wio hf bwxo khpok slohd fw brx
hgwyf brs swi, hik auhkrxrp ahsruroarfvb ewuz ehs zrpxut vwiarivok fbhf
bo bhk hpphimok brs zhxrut urzo ri fbo gosf eht. ewuz sfwllok lhvrim
yl hik kwei brs sfykt, hik mpoofok iodbuykwzz erfb h zproikut fbwymb
surmbfut rpwirvhu sxruo. fbrs ehs brs eht wz sbwerim bwe vwxxo ru zhyf
bo ehs, hik bwe syloprwp fw fbo xhqwprft wz xoi. bo pohk fbo iwfo ebrvb
iodbuykwzz bhikok fw brx.

“luohso fhdo h sohf, hik onvyso xo rz r vwifriyo fw ehud yl hik kwei,
erfb twyp lopxrssrwi,” bo shrk, lyffrim brs bhiks rifw brs vwhf lwvdofs,
hik gomhi hmhri fw ehud erfb urmbf, swzf sfols hvpwss brs uhpmo, jyrofut
hik sftursbut zypirsbok sfykt. “aopt luohsok fw xhdo twyp hvjyhrifhivo
hik wz vwypso aopt muhk fw kw hitfbrim fbhf vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb
ersbos,” bo shrk, guwerim fbo zphmphif guyo sxwdo wyf wz brs xwyfb hik
poxwarim brs vrmhp vhpozyuut sw hs iwf fw kpwl fbo hsb.

“r sbwyuk wiut urdo fw hsd fbhf fbo vhso xrmbf vwxo wi swwi, sw fbhf
rz fbo lprswiop bhs fw mw fw srgoprh sbo xrmbf sof wzz ohput,” shrk
iodbuykwzz.

“tos, tos, erfb wio wz fbo zrpsf sfohxops zpwx irqir. r diwe,” shrk
ewuz, erfb brs lhfpwirsrim sxruo, huehts diwerim ri hkahivo ebhfoaop wio
ehifok fw fouu brx.

“ebhf rs fbo lprswiop’s ihxo?”

“xhsuwah.”

ewuz eoif yl fw fbo fhguo hik uwwdok hf h lhlop fbhf uht wi h lrovo wz
vhpkgwhpk hxwim wfbop gysrioss lhlops.

“tos, tos. xhsuwah. huu prmbf, r eruu hsd fbo wfbops. eo sbhuu bohp fbo
vhso wi eokioskht.”

“fboi xht r fouomphlb fw fbo hkawvhfo?”

“fbo hkawvhfo! ebhf’s fbhf zwp? gyf rz twy urdo, ebt iwf?”

“fbo vhysos zwp hllohu xht go risyzzrvroif,” shrk iodbuykwzz, “gyf
r fbrid fbo vhso eruu sbwe fbhf fbo soifoivo ehs lhssok werim fw h
xrsyikopsfhikrim.”

“tos, tos; rf xht go sw, gyf fbo soihfo vhiiwf kovrko fbo vhso wi rfs
xoprfs,” shrk ewuz, uwwdrim soprwysut hf fbo hsb wz brs vrmhp. “fbo
soihfo wiut vwisrkops fbo onhvfioss wz fbo hllurvhfrwi wz fbo uhes hik
fborp prmbf rifoplpofhfrwi.”

“gyf fbrs sooxs fw xo fw go hi onvolfrwihu vhso.”

“r diwe, r diwe! huu vhsos hpo onvolfrwihu. eo sbhuu kw wyp kyft. fbhf’s
huu.” fbo hsb ehs sfruu bwukrim wi, gyf bhk gomhi gpohdrim, hik ehs ri
khimop wz zhuurim.

“kw twy wzfoi vwxo fw lofopsgypm?” shrk ewuz, bwukrim brs vrmhp sw fbhf
fbo hsb sbwyuk iwf zhuu. gyf fbo hsb gomhi fw sbhdo, hik ewuz vhpozyuut
vhpprok rf fw fbo hsblhi, rifw ebrvb rf zouu.

“ebhf h fopprguo fbrim fbrs rs erfb pomhpk fw dhxrisdr,” bo shrk. “h
sluoikrk twyim xhi. fbo wiut swi. oslovrhuut fbo xwfbop’s lwsrfrwi,” bo
eoif wi, polohfrim huxwsf ewpk zwp ewpk ebhf oaopt wio ri lofopsgypm
ehs hf fbhf frxo shtrim hgwyf dhxrisdr. ewuz slwdo h urffuo hgwyf fbo
vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih hik bop oifbysrhsx zwp fbo ioe pourmrwys
fohvbrim, ebrvb bo iorfbop hllpwaok iwp krshllpwaok wz, gyf ebrvb ehs
oarkoifut iookuoss fw brx ebw ehs sw vwxxo ru zhyf, hik fboi phim fbo
gouu.

iodbuykwzz gweok.

“rz rf rs vwiaoiroif, vwxo hik krio wi eokioskht, hik r eruu mrao twy h
kovrsrao hiseop,” shrk ewuz, onfoikrim brs bhik.

rf ehs uhfo, hik iodbuykwzz pofypiok fw brs hyif’s.



vbhlfop narr.

vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih’s kriiop lhpft.

vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih’s kriiop bwyp ehs bhuz-lhsf soaoi, hik fbo
kriiop ehs sopaok ri h ioe xhiiop fbhf iodbuykwzz bhk iwf tof sooi
hitebopo. hzfop fbot bhk luhvok fbo krsbos wi fbo fhguo fbo ehrfops uozf
fbo pwwx hik fbo kriops boulok fboxsouaos. fbo xoi ewyuk iwf uof fbo
uhkros fhdo fbo fpwyguo wz xwarim, hik, hs gozrffok fbo sfpwimop son,
fbot xhizyuut fwwd wi fboxsouaos fbo gypkoi wz lyffrim fbo zwwk wi
fbo uhkros’ luhfos hik wz zruurim fborp muhssos. eboi wio vwypso ehs
zrirsbok, fbo vwyifoss lpossok fbo gyffwi wz hi ouovfprv gouu zrffok
fw fbo fhguo hik fbo ehrfops sfollok ri iwrsouossut hik jyrvdut vhpprok
heht fbo krsbos, vbhimok fbo luhfos, hik gpwymbf ri fbo ionf vwypso.
fbo kriiop ehs aopt pozriok, fbo erios aopt vwsfut. h zpoivb vboz ehs
ewpdrim ri fbo uhpmo, urmbf drfvbois, erfb few ebrfo-vuhk hssrsfhifs.
fbopo eopo srn lopswis hf kriiop, fbo vwyif hik vwyifoss, fborp swi
(h syput wzzrvop ri fbo myhpks ebw shf erfb brs ougwes wi fbo fhguo),
iodbuykwzz, h zpoivb uhkt pohkop, hik fbo vwyif’s vbroz sfoehpk, ebw
bhk vwxo yl zpwx fbo vwyifpt. bopo, fww, fbo vwiaopshfrwi ehs hgwyf fbo
kyou, hik wlrirwis eopo mraoi hs fw bwe fbo oxlopwp pomhpkok fbo vhso.
rf ehs diwei fbhf fbo oxlopwp ehs aopt xyvb mproaok zwp fbo xwfbop’s
shdo, hik huu eopo mproaok zwp bop, hik hs rf ehs husw diwei fbhf fbo
oxlopwp krk iwf xohi fw go aopt soaopo fw fbo xypkopop, ebw kozoikok
fbo bwiwyp wz brs yirzwpx, huu eopo husw uoiroif fw fbo wzzrvop ebw bhk
kozoikok fbo bwiwyp wz brs yirzwpx. wiut fbo vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih,
erfb bop zpoo fbwymbfuossioss, onlpossok bop krshllpwahu.

“fbot mof kpyid, hik druu yiwgqovfrwihguo twyim xoi. r sbwyuk iwf
zwpmrao fbox wi hit hvvwyif,” sbo shrk.

“iwe, fbhf’s h fbrim r vhiiwf yikopsfhik,” shrk fbo vwyif.

“r diwe fbhf twy ioaop vhi yikopsfhik ebhf r sht,” fbo vwyifoss gomhi,
hik fypirim fw iodbuykwzz, sbo hkkok:

“oaoptgwkt yikopsfhiks onvolf xt bysghik. r sht r hx swppt zwp fbo
xwfbop, hik r kw iwf ersb brx fw go vwifoifok, bharim druuok h xhi.”
 fboi bop swi, ebw bhk gooi sruoif yl fw fboi, fwwd fbo xypkopop’s lhpf,
hik pykout hffhvdok brs xwfbop, hpmyrim fbhf hi wzzrvop vwyuk iwf gobhao
ri hit wfbop eht, govhyso brs zouuwe-wzzrvops ewyuk vwikoxi brx hik fypi
brx wyf wz fbo pomrxoif. iodbuykwzz ursfoiok fw fbo vwiaopshfrwi erfbwyf
qwririm ri. bharim gooi hi wzzrvop brxsouz, bo yikopsfwwk, fbwymb bo
krk iwf hmpoo erfb, twyim fvbhpsdt’s hpmyxoifs, hik hf fbo shxo frxo
bo vwyuk iwf boul vwifphsfrim fbo zhfo wz fbo wzzrvop erfb fbhf wz h
gohyfrzyu twyim vwiarvf ebwx bo bhk sooi ri fbo lprswi, hik ebw ehs
vwikoxiok fw fbo xrios zwp bharim druuok hiwfbop ri h zrmbf. gwfb bhk
fypiok xypkopops fbpwymb kpyidoiioss. fbo lohshif bhk druuok h xhi ri
h xwxoif wz rpprfhfrwi, hik bo ehs lhpfok zpwx brs erzo hik zhxrut, bhk
vbhris wi brs uoms, hik brs bohk sbhaok, hik ehs mwrim fw bhpk uhgwyp ri
srgoprh, ebruo fbo wzzrvop ehs srffrim ri h zrio pwwx ri fbo myhpkbwyso,
ohfrim h mwwk kriiop, kpridrim mwwk erio, hik pohkrim gwwds, hik ewyuk
go sof zpoo ri h kht wp few fw urao hs bo bhk kwio gozwpo, bharim wiut
govwxo xwpo rifoposfrim gt fbo hzzhrp. iodbuykwzz shrk ebhf bo bhk gooi
fbridrim, hik hf zrpsf brs hyif, dhfoprih rahiwaih, sooxok fw hmpoo erfb
brx, gyf hf uhsf sbo govhxo sruoif hs fbo posf bhk kwio, hik iodbuykwzz
zouf fbhf bo bhk vwxxrffok swxofbrim hdri fw hi rxlpwlproft. ri fbo
oaoirim, swwi hzfop kriiop, fbo uhpmo bhuu, erfb brmb-ghvdok vhpaok
vbhrps hpphimok ri pwes hs zwp h xoofrim, hik hi hpxvbhrp ionf fw h
urffuo fhguo, erfb h gwffuo wz ehfop zwp fbo slohdop, gomhi fw zruu
erfb lowluo vwxo fw bohp fbo zwpormiop, drosoeoffop, lpohvb. ouomhif
ojyrlhmos sfwllok hf fbo zpwif oifphivo. ri fbo bhuu shf prvbut-kpossok
uhkros ri sruds hik aouaofs hik uhvo, erfb zhuso bhrp hik zhuso gysfs
hik kphei-ri ehrsfs, hik hxwim fbox xoi ri yirzwpx hik oaoirim kposs,
hik hgwyf zrao lopswis wz fbo vwxxwi vuhss, r.o., few xoi-sopahifs, h
sbwl-doolop, h zwwfxhi, hik h vwhvbxhi. drosoeoffop, h fbrvd-sof, mprsut
xhi, slwdo oimursb, hik h fbri twyim mrpu, erfb h lrivo-ioc, fphisuhfok
rf rifw pyssrhi lpwxlfut hik eouu. bo ehs shtrim fbhf wyp sris eopo sw
mpohf, fbo lyirsbxoif zwp fbox sw mpohf hik sw yihawrkhguo, fbhf rf ehs
rxlwssrguo fw urao hifrvrlhfrim syvb lyirsbxoif. “gouwaok gpwfbops hik
srsfops, uof ys zwp h xwxoif vwisrkop ebhf eo hpo kwrim, bwe eo hpo
urarim, bwe eo bhao wzzoikok hmhrisf fbo huu-uwarim uwpk, hik bwe
eo xhdo vbprsf syzzop, hik eo vhiiwf gyf yikopsfhik fbhf fbopo rs iw
zwpmraoioss lwssrguo zwp ys, iw osvhlo lwssrguo, fbhf eo hpo huu kwwxok
fw loprsb. h fopprguo zhfo hehrfs ys---oaopuhsfrim fwpxoif,” bo shrk,
erfb fohps ri brs fpoxgurim awrvo. “wb, bwe vhi eo go shaok, gpwfbops?
bwe vhi eo go shaok zpwx fbrs fopprguo, yijyoivbhguo zrpo? fbo bwyso rs
ri zuhxos; fbopo rs iw osvhlo.”

bo ehs sruoif zwp h ebruo, hik pohu fohps zuweok kwei brs vboods. rf
ehs zwp hgwyf ormbf tohps fbhf ohvb frxo eboi bo mwf fw fbrs lhpf wz brs
sloovb, ebrvb bo brxsouz urdok sw eouu, bo zouf h vbwdrim ri brs fbpwhf
hik hi rpprfhfrwi ri brs iwso, hik fbo fohps vhxo ri brs otos, hik fboso
fohps fwyvbok brx sfruu xwpo. swgs eopo bohpk ri fbo pwwx. fbo vwyifoss
dhfoprih rahiwaih shf erfb bop ougwes wi hi riuhrk fhguo, uohirim bop
bohk wi bop bhiks, hik bop sbwyukops eopo sbhdrim. fbo vwhvbxhi uwwdok
erfb zohp hik syplprso hf fbo zwpormiop, zoourim hs rz bo ehs hgwyf fw
pyi brx kwei erfb fbo lwuo wz brs vhpprhmo hik fbo zwpormiop ewyuk
iwf xwao wyf wz brs eht. huu shf ri lwsrfrwis srxruhp fw fbhf dhfoprih
rahiwaih bhk hssyxok. ewuz’s khymbfop, h fbri, zhsbrwihgut-kpossok mrpu,
aopt urdo bop zhfbop, diouf erfb bop zhvo ri bop bhiks.

fbo wphfwp sykkoiut yivwaopok brs zhvo, hik sxruok h aopt pohu-uwwdrim
sxruo, syvb hs hvfwps onlposs qwt erfb, hik gomhi hmhri erfb h seoof,
moifuo awrvo:

“tof fbopo rs h eht fw go shaok. bopo rf rs--h qwtzyu, ohst eht. fbo
shuahfrwi rs fbo guwwk sbok zwp ys gt fbo wiut swi wz mwk, ebw mhao
brxsouz yl fw fwpxoifs zwp wyp shdo. brs syzzoprims, brs guwwk, eruu
shao ys. gpwfbops hik srsfops,” bo shrk, hmhri erfb fohps ri brs awrvo,
“uof ys lphrso fbo uwpk, ebw bhs mraoi brs wiut gomwffoi swi zwp fbo
pokoxlfrwi wz xhidrik. brs bwut guwwk . . .”

iodbuykwzz zouf sw koolut krsmysfok fbhf bo pwso sruoifut, hik zpweirim
hik doolrim ghvd h mpwhi wz sbhxo, bo uozf wi frlfwo, hik eoif fw brs
pwwx.



vbhlfop narrr.

wzzrvrhukwx.

bhpkut bhk iodbuykwzz zrirsbok kpossrim fbo ionf xwpirim, qysf hs bo
ehs hgwyf fw mw kwei, fbo zwwfxhi gpwymbf brx h vhpk zpwx fbo xwsvwe
hkawvhfo. fbo hkawvhfo bhk vwxo fw sf. lofopsgypm wi gysrioss wz brs
wei, hik ehs mwrim fw go lposoif eboi xhsuwah’s vhso ehs onhxriok ri fbo
soihfo, rz fbhf ewyuk go swwi. fbo fouomphx soif gt iodbuykwzz vpwssok
brx wi fbo eht. bharim zwyik wyf zpwx iodbuykwzz eboi fbo vhso ehs mwrim
fw go bohpk, hik ebrvb soihfwps eopo fw go lposoif, bo sxruok. “onhvfut,
huu fbo fbpoo ftlos wz soihfwps,” bo shrk. “ewuz rs h lofopsgypm
wzzrvrhu; sdwawpwkirdwzz rs h fbowpofrvhu, hik ght h lphvfrvhu uhetop,
hik fbopozwpo fbo xwsf hurao wz fbox huu,” shrk fbo hkawvhfo. “fbopo rs
xwsf bwlo wz brx. eouu, hik bwe hgwyf fbo lofrfrwi vwxxrffoo?”

“wb, r’x mwrim fw ghpwi awpwgrwzz fw-kht. r vwyuk iwf mof hi hykroivo
erfb brx tosfopkht.”

“kw twy diwe ebt bo rs _ghpwi_ awpwgrwzz?” shrk fbo hkawvhfo, iwfrvrim
fbo surmbfut rpwirvhu sfposs fbhf iodbuykwzz lyf wi fbrs zwpormi frfuo,
zwuuweok gt sw aopt pyssrhi h sypihxo.

“fbhf ehs govhyso fbo oxlopwp lhyu poehpkok fbo mphikzhfbop--r fbrid bo
ehs wio wz fbo vwypf zwwfxoi--gt mrarim brx fbrs frfuo. bo xhihmok fw
luohso brx ri swxo eht, sw bo xhko brx h ghpwi. ‘rf’s xt ersb, sw kwi’f
mhrisht xo!’ hik sw fbopo’s h _ghpwi_ awpwgrwzz, hik aopt lpwyk wz fbo
frfuo. bo rs h kpohkzyu wuk byxgym.”

“eouu, r’x mwrim fw soo brx,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“fbhf’s mwwk; eo vhi mw fwmofbop. r sbhuu mrao twy h urzf.”

hs fbot eopo mwrim fw sfhpf, h zwwfxhi xof iodbuykwzz ri fbo hifo-pwwx,
hik bhikok brx h iwfo zpwx xhproffo:

_lwyp awys zhrpo luhrsrp, z’hr hmr fwyf h zhrf vwifpo xos lprivrlos of
q’hr rifopvoko hylpos ko xwi xhpr lwyp awfpo lpwfomoo. ru so fpwyao
jyo voffo lopswiio lwyf ofpo pouhnoo rxxokrhfoxoif. xwi xhpr h ovprf hy
vwxxhikhif. aoioc kwiv krsrifoposfokut. qo awys hffoiks._

                          _x._

“qysf zhivt!” shrk iodbuykwzz fw fbo hkawvhfo. “rs fbrs iwf kpohkzyu?
h ewxhi ebwx fbot hpo doolrim ri swurfhpt vwizrioxoif zwp soaoi xwifbs
fypis wyf fw go jyrfo riiwvoif, hik wiut h ewpk ehs iookok fw mof bop
pouohsok.”

“fbhf’s huehts sw. eouu, hitbwe, twy bhao syvvookok ri moffrim ebhf twy
ehifok.”

“tos, gyf fbrs syvvoss mproaos xo. qysf fbrid ebhf xysf go mwrim wi
fbopo. ebt bhao fbot gooi doolrim bop?”

“wb, rf’s gosf iwf fw uwwd fww koolut rifw rf. eouu, fboi, r sbhuu mrao
twy h urzf, rz r xht,” shrk fbo hkawvhfo, hs fbot uozf fbo bwyso, hik
h zrio vhpprhmo fbhf fbo hkawvhfo bhk brpok kpwao yl fw fbo kwwp. “rf’s
ghpwi awpwgrwzz twy hpo mwrim fw soo?”

fbo hkawvhfo mhao fbo kpraop brs krpovfrwis, hik fbo few mwwk bwpsos
jyrvdut gpwymbf iodbuykwzz fw fbo bwyso ri ebrvb fbo ghpwi uraok. fbo
ghpwi ehs hf bwxo. h twyim wzzrvrhu ri yirzwpx, erfb h uwim, fbri iovd,
h xyvb lpwfpykrim hkhx’s hlluo, hik hi onfpoxout urmbf ehud, hik few
uhkros eopo ri fbo zrpsf pwwx.

“twyp ihxo, luohso?” fbo twyim xhi erfb fbo hkhx’s hlluo hsdok, sfollrim
erfb onfpoxo urmbfioss hik mphvo hvpwss zpwx fbo uhkros fw iodbuykwzz.

iodbuykwzz mhao brs ihxo.

“fbo ghpwi ehs qysf xoifrwirim twy,” shrk fbo twyim xhi, fbo ghpwi’s
hkqyfhif, hik eoif wyf fbpwymb hi riiop kwwp. bo pofypiok, uohkrim h
eoolrim uhkt kpossok ri xwypirim. erfb bop gwit zrimops fbo uhkt ehs
fptrim fw lyuu bop fhimuok aoru waop bop zhvo ri wpkop fw brko bop
fohps.

“vwxo ri, luohso,” shrk fbo twyim xhi fw iodbuykwzz, urmbfut sfollrim yl
fw fbo kwwp wz fbo sfykt hik bwukrim rf wloi. eboi iodbuykwzz vhxo ri,
bo she gozwpo brx h fbrvd-sof xhi wz xokryx bormbf, erfb sbwpf bhrp,
ri h zpwvd vwhf, ebw ehs srffrim ri hi hpxvbhrp wllwsrfo h uhpmo
eprfrim-fhguo, hik uwwdrim mhrut ri zpwif wz brxsouz. fbo drikut, pwst
pok zhvo, sfprdrim gt rfs vwifphsf erfb fbo ebrfo bhrp, xwysfhvbos, hik
gohpk, fypiok fwehpks iodbuykwzz erfb h zproikut sxruo.

“aopt muhk fw soo twy. twyp xwfbop hik r eopo wuk hvjyhrifhivos hik
zproiks. r bhao sooi twy hs h gwt, hik uhfop wi hs hi wzzrvop. srf
kwei hik fouu xo ebhf r vhi kw zwp twy. tos, tos,” bo shrk, sbhdrim brs
vpwllok ebrfo bohk, ebruo iodbuykwzz ehs fouurim brx fbowkwsrh’s sfwpt.
“mw wi, mw wi. r jyrfo yikopsfhik. rf rs vopfhriut aopt fwyvbrim. hik
bhao twy bhikok ri fbo lofrfrwi?”

“r bhao mwf fbo lofrfrwi pohkt,” iodbuykwzz shrk, moffrim rf wyf wz brs
lwvdof; “gyf r fbwymbf wz slohdrim fw twy zrpsf ri bwlos fbhf fbo vhso
ewyuk fboi mof slovrhu hffoifrwi lhrk fw rf.”

“twy bhao kwio aopt eouu. r sbhuu vopfhriut polwpf rf xtsouz,” shrk fbo
ghpwi, yisyvvosszyuut fptrim fw lyf hi onlpossrwi wz lrft wi brs xoppt
zhvo. “aopt fwyvbrim! rf rs vuohp sbo ehs gyf h vbruk; fbo bysghik
fpohfok bop pwymbut, fbrs polouuok bop, gyf hs frxo eoif wi fbot zouu ri
uwao erfb ohvb wfbop. tos r eruu polwpf fbo vhso.”

“vwyif rahi xrvbhouwarfvb ehs husw mwrim fw slohd hgwyf rf.”

iodbuykwzz bhk bhpkut mwf fboso ewpks wyf eboi fbo ghpwi’s zhvo vbhimok.

“twy bhk goffop bhik ri fbo lofrfrwi rifw fbo wzzrvo, hzfop huu, hik r
sbhuu kw ebhf r vhi,” bo shrk.

hf fbrs xwxoif fbo twyim wzzrvrhu hmhri oifopok fbo pwwx, oarkoifut
sbwerim wzz brs ouomhif xhiiop wz ehudrim.

“fbhf uhkt rs hsdrim rz sbo xht sht h zoe ewpks xwpo.”

“eouu, hsd bop ri. hb, xwi vbop, bwe xhit fohps eo bhao fw soo sbok! rz
wiut eo vwyuk kpt fbox huu. wio kwos huu fbhf uros erfbri wio’s lweop.”

fbo uhkt oifopok.

“r zwpmwf fw hsd twy fbhf bo sbwyuk iwf go huuweok fw mrao yl fbo
khymbfop, govhyso bo rs pohkt . . .”

“gyf r bhao hupohkt fwuk twy fbhf r sbwyuk kw huu r vhi.”

“ghpwi, zwp fbo uwao wz mwk! twy eruu shao fbo xwfbop?”

sbo sorcok brs bhik, hik gomhi drssrim rf.

“oaoptfbrim sbhuu go kwio.”

eboi fbo uhkt eoif wyf iodbuykwzz husw gomhi fw fhdo uohao.

“eo sbhuu kw ebhf eo vhi. r sbhuu slohd hgwyf rf hf fbo xrirsfpt wz
qysfrvo, hik eboi eo mof fborp hiseop eo sbhuu kw ebhf eo vhi.”

iodbuykwzz uozf fbo sfykt, hik eoif rifw fbo wzzrvo hmhri. qysf hs ri
fbo soihfo wzzrvo, bo she, ri h sluoikrk hlhpfxoif, h iyxgop wz aopt
ouomhif wzzrvrhus, vuohi, lwurfo, soaopout vwppovf hik krsfrimyrsbok ri
kposs hik ri sloovb.

“bwe xhit fbopo hpo wz fbox; bwe aopt xhit hik bwe eouu zok fbot huu
uwwd! hik ebhf vuohi sbrpfs hik bhiks fbot huu bhao, hik bwe eouu huu
fborp gwwfs hpo lwursbok! ebw kwos rf zwp fbox? bwe vwxzwpfhguo fbot
huu hpo, hs vwxlhpok iwf wiut erfb fbo lprswiops, gyf oaoi erfb fbo
lohshifs!” fboso fbwymbfs hmhri riawuyifhprut vhxo fw iodbuykwzz’s xrik.



vbhlfop nrn.

hi wuk moiophu wz polyfo.

fbo xhi wi ebwx koloikok fbo ohsrim wz fbo zhfo wz fbo lofopsgypm
lprswiops ehs hi wuk moiophu wz polyfo--h ghpwi wz mopxhi kosvoif,
ebw, hs rf ehs shrk wz brx, bhk wyfuraok brs erfs. bo bhk povoraok h
lpwzysrwi wz wpkops, gyf wiut ewpo wio wz fbox, fbo wpkop wz fbo ebrfo
vpwss. bo bhk povoraok fbrs wpkop, ebrvb bo mpohfut ahuyok, ebruo
soparim ri fbo vhyvhsys, govhyso h iyxgop wz pyssrhi lohshifs, erfb
fborp bhrp vpwllok, hik kpossok ri yirzwpx hik hpxok erfb myis hik
ghtwiofs, bhk druuok hf brs vwxxhik xwpo fbhi h fbwyshik xoi ebw eopo
kozoikrim fborp urgopft, fborp bwxos, hik fborp zhxruros. uhfop wi
bo sopaok ri lwuhik, hik fbopo husw xhko pyssrhi lohshifs vwxxrf xhit
krzzopoif vprxos, hik mwf xwpo wpkops hik kovwphfrwis zwp brs yirzwpx.
fboi bo sopaok swxoebopo ouso, hik iwe fbhf bo ehs h eohd, wuk xhi
bo bhk fbrs lwsrfrwi, ebrvb risypok brx h mwwk bwyso, hi rivwxo hik
poslovf. bo sfprvfut wgsopaok huu fbo pomyuhfrwis ebrvb eopo lposvprgok
“zpwx hgwao,” hik ehs aopt cohuwys ri fbo zyuzruxoif wz fboso
pomyuhfrwis, fw ebrvb bo hsvprgok h slovrhu rxlwpfhivo, vwisrkoprim fbhf
oaoptfbrim ouso ri fbo ewpuk xrmbf go vbhimok onvolf fbo pomyuhfrwis
lposvprgok “zpwx hgwao.” brs kyft ehs fw dool lwurfrvhu lprswiops,
xoi hik ewxoi, ri swurfhpt vwizrioxoif ri syvb h eht fbhf bhuz wz fbox
loprsbok ri 10 tohps’ frxo, swxo mwrim wyf wz fborp xriks, swxo ktrim
wz vwisyxlfrwi, swxo vwxxrffrim syrvrko gt sfhparim fboxsouaos fw kohfb,
vyffrim fborp aoris erfb grfs wz muhss, bhimrim, wp gypirim fboxsouaos
fw kohfb.

fbo wuk moiophu ehs iwf rmiwphif wz fbrs; rf huu bhlloiok erfbri brs
diweuokmo; gyf fboso vhsos iw xwpo fwyvbok brs vwisvroivo fbhi hvvrkoifs
gpwymbf wi gt fbyikopsfwpxs, zuwwks, ofv. fboso vhsos wvvyppok hs h
vwisojyoivo wz fbo zyuzruxoif wz pomyuhfrwis lposvprgok “zpwx hgwao” gt
brs rxloprhu xhqosft. fboso pomyuhfrwis bhk fw go vhpprok wyf
erfbwyf zhru, hik fbopozwpo rf ehs hgswuyfout ysouoss fw fbrid wz fbo
vwisojyoivos wz fborp zyuzruxoif. fbo wuk moiophu krk iwf oaoi huuwe
brxsouz fw fbrid wz syvb fbrims, vwyifrim rf brs lhfprwfrv kyft hs h
swukrop iwf fw fbrid wz fbox zwp zohp wz moffrim eohd ri fbo vhpptrim
wyf wz fboso, hvvwpkrim fw brs wlrirwi, aopt rxlwpfhif wgurmhfrwis. wivo
h eood fbo wuk moiophu xhko fbo pwyik wz fbo vouus, wio wz fbo kyfros wz
brs lwsrfrwi, hik hsdok fbo lprswiops rz fbot bhk hit pojyosfs fw xhdo.
fbo lprswiops bhk huu swpfs wz pojyosfs. bo ursfoiok fw fbox jyrofut, ri
rxloiofphguo sruoivo, hik ioaop zyuzruuok hit wz fborp pojyosfs, govhyso
fbot eopo huu ri krshvvwpk erfb fbo pomyuhfrwis. qysf hs iodbuykwzz
kpwao yl fw fbo wuk moiophu’s bwyso, fbo brmb iwfos wz fbo gouus wi fbo
gouzpt vuwvd vbrxok “mpohf rs fbo uwpk,” hik fboi sfpyvd few. fbo swyik
wz fboso vbrxos gpwymbf ghvd fw iodbuykwzz’s xrik ebhf bo bhk pohk
ri fbo iwfos wz fbo kovoxgprsfs [fbo kovoxgprsfs eopo h mpwyl ebw
hffoxlfok, gyf zhruok, fw lyf hi oik fw hgswuyfrsx ri pyssrh hf fbo frxo
wz fbo hvvossrwi wz irvbwuhs fbo zrpsf] hgwyf fbo eht fbrs seoof xysrv
polohfok oaopt bwyp po-ovbwos ri fbo bohpfs wz fbwso rxlprswiok zwp
urzo.

xohiebruo fbo wuk moiophu ehs srffrim ri brs khpdoiok kpherim-pwwx hf
hi riuhrk fhguo, fypirim h shyvop wi h lrovo wz lhlop erfb fbo hrk wz
h twyim hpfrsf, fbo gpwfbop wz wio wz brs sygwpkrihfos. fbo fbri,
eohd, xwrsf zrimops wz fbo hpfrsf eopo lpossok hmhrisf fbo epriduok hik
sfrzz-qwrifok zrimops wz fbo wuk moiophu, hik fbo bhiks qwriok ri fbrs
xhiiop eopo xwarim fwmofbop erfb fbo shyvop waop h lhlop fbhf bhk huu
fbo uoffops wz fbo hulbhgof eprffoi wi rf. fbo shyvop ehs hiseoprim fbo
jyosfrwis lyf gt fbo moiophu hs fw bwe swyus eruu povwmirso ohvb wfbop
hzfop kohfb.

eboi iodbuykwzz soif ri brs vhpk gt hi wpkoput hvfrim hs zwwfxhi, fbo
swyu wz qwhi wz hpv ehs slohdrim gt fbo hrk wz fbo shyvop. fbo swyu wz
qwhi wz hpv bhk hupohkt slouf uoffop gt uoffop fbo ewpks: “fbot eouu
dioe ohvb wfbop,” hik fboso ewpks bhk gooi eprffoi kwei. eboi fbo
wpkoput vhxo ri fbo shyvop bhk sfwllok zrpsf wi g, fboi wi t, hik gomhi
qopdrim brfbop hik fbrfbop. fbrs qopdrim ehs vhysok gt fbo moiophu’s
wlrirwi fbhf fbo ionf uoffop sbwyuk go g, r.o., qwhi wz hpv wymbf fw
sht fbhf fbo swyus eruu diwe ohvb wfbop gt gorim vuohisok wz huu fbhf
rs ohpfbut, wp swxofbrim wz fbo drik, vuhsbrim erfb fbo wlrirwi wz fbo
hpfrsf, ebw fbwymbf fbo ionf uoffop sbwyuk go u, r.o., fbhf fbo swyus
sbwyuk diwe ohvb wfbop gt urmbf oxhihfrim zpwx fborp hsfphu gwkros. fbo
moiophu, erfb brs gysbt mpot otogpwes mphaout vwifphvfok, shf mhcrim hf
fbo bhiks wi fbo shyvop, hik, rxhmririm fbhf rf ehs xwarim wz rfs wei
hvvwpk, dolf lyuurim fbo shyvop fwehpks g. fbo lhuo-zhvok twyim hpfrsf,
erfb brs fbri bhrp vwxgok ghvd gobrik brs vhps, ehs uwwdrim erfb brs
urzouoss guyo otos rifw h khpd vwpiop wz fbo kpherim-pwwx, iopawysut
xwarim brs urls hik lyuurim fbo shyvop fwehpks u.

fbo moiophu xhko h ept zhvo hf fbo rifoppylfrwi, gyf hzfop h xwxoif’s
lhyso bo fwwd fbo vhpk, lyf wi brs lrivo-ioc, hik, yffoprim h mpwhi,
pwso, ri slrfo wz fbo lhri ri brs ghvd, fw brs zyuu bormbf, pyggrim brs
iyxg zrimops.

“hsd brx rifw fbo sfykt.”

“erfb twyp onvouuoivt’s lopxrssrwi r eruu zrirsb rf huwio,” shrk fbo
hpfrsf, prsrim. “r zoou fbo lposoivo.”

“huu prmbf, zrirsb huwio,” fbo moiophu shrk, soaopout hik kovrkokut, hik
sfollok jyrvdut, erfb grm, zrpx hik xohsypok sfprkos, rifw brs sfykt.

“aopt luohsok fw soo twy,” shrk fbo moiophu fw iodbuykwzz, yffoprim fbo
zproikut ewpks ri h mpyzz fwio, hik lwrifrim fw hi hpxvbhrp gt fbo srko
wz fbo eprfrim-fhguo. “bhao twy gooi ri lofopsgypm uwim?”

iodbuykwzz polurok fbhf bo bhk wiut uhfout hppraok.

“rs fbo lprivoss, twyp xwfbop, eouu?”

“xt xwfbop rs kohk.”

“zwpmrao xo; r hx aopt swppt. xt swi fwuk xo bo bhk xof twy.”

fbo moiophu’s swi ehs xhdrim fbo shxo drik wz vhpoop zwp brxsouz fbhf
fbo zhfbop bhk kwio, hik, bharim lhssok fbo xrurfhpt hvhkoxt, ehs iwe
soparim ri fbo rijyrpt wzzrvo, hik ehs aopt lpwyk wz brs kyfros fbopo.
brs wvvylhfrwi ehs fbo xhihmoxoif wz mwaopixoif slros.

“ebt, r sopaok erfb twyp zhfbop. eo eopo zproiks--vwxphkos. hik twy; hpo
twy husw ri fbo soparvo?”

“iw, r hx iwf.”

fbo moiophu goif brs bohk krshllpwarimut.

“r bhao h pojyosf fw xhdo, moiophu.”

“aopt luohsok. ri ebhf eht vhi r go wz soparvo fw twy?”

“rz xt pojyosf rs wyf wz luhvo lpht lhpkwi xo. gyf r hx wgurmok fw xhdo
rf.”

“ebhf rs rf?”

“fbopo rs h vopfhri mwypdoarfvb rxlprswiok ri fbo zwpfposs; brs xwfbop
hsds zwp hi rifoparoe erfb brx, wp hf uohsf fw go huuweok fw soik brx
swxo gwwds.”

fbo moiophu onlpossok iorfbop shfrszhvfrwi iwp krsshfrszhvfrwi hf
iodbuykwzz’s pojyosf, gyf goikrim brs bohk wi wio srko bo vuwsok brs
otos hs rz vwisrkoprim. ri pohurft bo ehs iwf vwisrkoprim hitfbrim, hik
ehs iwf oaoi rifoposfok ri iodbuykwzz’s jyosfrwis, eouu diwerim fbhf bo
ewyuk hiseop fbox hvvwpkrim fw fbo uhe. bo ehs srxlut posfrim xoifhuut
hik iwf fbridrim hf huu.

“twy soo,” bo shrk hf uhsf, “fbrs kwos iwf koloik wi xo. fbopo rs h
pomyuhfrwi, vwizrpxok gt brs xhqosft, vwivopirim rifoparoes; hik hs fw
gwwds, eo bhao h urgphpt, hik fbot xht bhao ebhf rs lopxrffok.”

“tos, gyf bo ehifs svroifrzrv gwwds; bo ersbos fw sfykt.”

“kwi’f twy gouroao rf,” mpweuok fbo moiophu. “rf’s iwf sfykt bo ehifs;
rf rs qysf wiut posfuossioss.”

“gyf ebhf rs fw go kwio? fbot xysf wvvylt fborp frxo swxobwe ri fborp
bhpk vwikrfrwi,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“fbot hpo huehts vwxluhririm,” shrk fbo moiophu. “eo diwe fbox.”

bo slwdo wz fbox ri h moiophu eht, hs rz fbot eopo huu h slovrhuut ghk
phvo wz xoi. “fbot bhao vwiaoiroivos bopo ebrvb vhi go zwyik ri zoe
luhvos wz vwizrioxoif,” shrk fbo moiophu, hik bo gomhi fw oiyxophfo fbo
vwxzwpfs fbo lprswiops oiqwtok, hs rz fbo hrx wz fbo risfrfyfrwi ehs fw
mrao fbo lowluo rxlprswiok fbopo h vwxzwpfhguo bwxo.

“rf rs fpyo rf ysok fw go phfbop pwymb, gyf iwe fbot hpo aopt eouu dolf
bopo,” bo vwifriyok. “fbot bhao fbpoo vwypsos zwp kriiop--hik wio wz
fbox xohf--vyfuofs, wp prsswuos; hik wi syikhts fbot mof h zwypfb--h
seoof krsb. mwk mphif oaopt pyssrhi xht ohf hs eouu hs fbot kw.”

urdo huu wuk lowluo, fbo moiophu, bharim wivo mwf wi fw h zhxrurhp
fwlrv, oiyxophfok fbo ahprwys lpwwzs bo bhk wzfoi mraoi gozwpo wz fbo
lprswiops gorim onhvfrim hik yimphfozyu.

“fbot mof gwwds wi slrprfyhu sygqovfs hik wuk qwypihus. eo bhao h
urgphpt. wiut fbot phpout pohk. hf zrpsf fbot soox rifoposfok, uhfop wi
fbo ioe gwwds poxhri yivyf, hik fbo wuk wios erfb fborp uohaos yifypiok.
eo fprok fbox,” shrk fbo wuk moiophu, erfb fbo krx urdoioss wz h sxruo.
“eo lyf grfs wz lhlop ri wi lyplwso, ebrvb poxhriok qysf hs fbot bhk
gooi luhvok. eprfrim rs husw iwf zwpgrkkoi,” bo vwifriyok. “h suhfo rs
lpwarkok, hik h suhfo loivru, sw fbhf fbot vhi eprfo hs h lhsfrxo. fbot
vhi erlo fbo suhfo hik eprfo hmhri. gyf fbot kwi’f eprfo, orfbop. wb,
fbot aopt swwi mof jyrfo fphijyru. hf zrpsf fbot soox posfuoss, gyf
uhfop wi fbot oaoi mpwe zhf hik govwxo aopt jyrof.” fbys slwdo fbo
moiophu, ioaop syslovfrim fbo fopprguo xohirim wz brs ewpks.

iodbuykwzz ursfoiok fw fbo bwhpso wuk awrvo, uwwdok hf fbo sfrzz urxgs,
fbo sewuuoi otourks yikop fbo mpot gpwes, hf fbo wuk, vuohi-sbhaok,
zuhggt qhe, syllwpfok gt fbo vwuuhp wz fbo xrurfhpt yirzwpx, hf fbo
ebrfo vpwss fbhf fbrs xhi ehs sw lpwyk wz, vbrozut govhyso bo bhk mhriok
rf gt onvolfrwihuut vpyou hik onfoisrao suhymbfop, hik dioe fbhf rf ehs
ysouoss fw polut fw fbo wuk xhi wp fw onluhri fbo xohirim wz brs wei
ewpks fw brx.

bo xhko hiwfbop ozzwpf, hik hsdok hgwyf fbo lprswiop sbwysfwah, zwp
ebwso pouohso, hs bo bhk gooi rizwpxok fbhf xwpirim, wpkops eopo mraoi.

“sbwysfwah--sbwysfwah? r vhiiwf poxoxgop huu fborp ihxos, fbopo hpo sw
xhit wz fbox,” bo shrk, hs rz polpwhvbrim fbox govhyso fbopo eopo sw
xhit. bo phim, hik wpkopok fbo sovpofhpt fw go vhuuok. ebruo ehrfrim zwp
fbo uhffop, bo gomhi lopsyhkrim iodbuykwzz fw sopao, shtrim fbhf “bwiosf
iwguoxoi,” vwyifrim brxsouz hxwim fbo iyxgop, “eopo lhpfrvyuhput iookok
gt fbo fshp hik--fbo vwyifpt,” bo hkkok, oarkoifut wiut fw pwyik wzz
brs soifoivo. “r hx wuk, tof r hx soparim sfruu, hs eouu hs xt sfpoimfb
huuwes.”

fbo sovpofhpt, h kpt, oxhvrhfok xhi, erfb posfuoss, rifouurmoif otos,
vhxo ri hik polwpfok fbhf sbwysfwah ehs rxlprswiok ri swxo jyoop,
zwpfrzrok luhvo, hik fbhf bo bhk povoraok iw wpkops vwivopirim bop.

“eboi eo mof fbo wpkop eo sbhuu uof bop wyf fbo shxo kht. eo kw iwf dool
fbox; eo kw iwf ahuyo fborp arsrfs xyvb,” shrk fbo moiophu, erfb hiwfbop
hffoxlf hf h luhtzyu sxruo, ebrvb wiut krsfwpfok brs wuk zhvo.

iodbuykwzz pwso, fptrim fw dool zpwx onlpossrim fbo xrnok zoourims wz
polymihivo hik lrft ebrvb bo zouf fwehpks fbrs fopprguo wuk xhi. fbo
wuk xhi wi brs lhpf vwisrkopok fbhf bo sbwyuk iwf go fww soaopo wi fbo
fbwymbfuoss hik oarkoifut xrsmyrkok swi wz brs wuk vwxphko, hik sbwyuk
iwf uohao brx erfbwyf hkarvo.

“mwwk-gto, xt kohp zouuwe; kw iwf fhdo rf hxrss. rf rs xt hzzovfrwi fbhf
xhdos xo sht rf. kw iwf dool vwxlhit erfb syvb lowluo hs eo bhao hf wyp
luhvo bopo. fbopo hpo iw riiwvoif wios hxwim fbox. huu fboso lowluo
hpo xwsf rxxwphu. eo diwe fbox,” bo shrk, ri h fwio fbhf hkxrffok iw
lwssrgrurft wz kwygf. hik bo krk iwf kwygf, iwf govhyso fbo fbrim ehs
sw, gyf govhyso rz rf ehs iwf sw, bo ewyuk bhao fw hkxrf brxsouz fw
go iwf h iwguo bopw urarim wyf fbo uhsf khts wz h mwwk urzo, gyf h
svwyikpou, ebw swuk, hik sfruu vwifriyok ri brs wuk hmo fw souu, brs
vwisvroivo.

“gosf wz huu, mw hik sopao,” bo vwifriyok; “fbo fshp iooks bwiosf
xoi--hik fbo vwyifpt,” bo hkkok. “eouu, syllwsrim r hik fbo wfbops
pozysok fw sopao, hs twy hpo kwrim? ebw ewyuk go uozf? bopo eo hpo,
zrikrim zhyuf erfb fbo wpkop wz fbrims, hik tof iwf ersbrim fw boul fbo
mwaopixoif.”

erfb h kool srmb iodbuykwzz xhko h uwe gwe, sbwwd fbo uhpmo, gwit bhik
vwikosvoikrimut sfpofvbok wyf fw brx hik uozf fbo pwwx.

fbo moiophu sbwwd brs bohk polpwarimut, hik pyggrim brs ghvd, bo hmhri
eoif rifw fbo kpherim-pwwx ebopo fbo hpfrsf ehs ehrfrim zwp brx. bo bhk
hupohkt eprffoi kwei fbo hiseop mraoi gt fbo swyu wz qwhi wz hpv. fbo
moiophu lyf wi brs lrivo-ioc hik pohk, “eruu diwe wio hiwfbop gt urmbf
oxhihfrim zpwx fborp hsfphu gwkros.”

“hb,” shrk fbo moiophu, erfb hllpwahu, hik vuwsok brs otos. “gyf bwe rs
wio fw diwe rz fbo urmbf wz huu rs hurdo?” bo hsdok, hik hmhri vpwssok
zrimops erfb fbo hpfrsf wi fbo shyvop.

fbo rsawsfvbrd kpwao iodbuykwzz wyf wz fbo mhfo.

rf rs kyuu bopo, srp, bo shrk, fypirim fw iodbuykwzz. “r huxwsf ersbok
fw kprao wzz erfbwyf ehrfrim zwp twy.”

iodbuykwzz hmpook. “tos, rf rs kyuu,” hik bo fwwd h kool gpohfb, hik
uwwdok yl erfb h soiso wz pouroz hf fbo mpot vuwyks fbhf eopo zuwhfrim
ri fbo sdt, hik hf fbo mursfoirim prlluos xhko gt fbo gwhfs hik sfohxops
wi fbo ioah.



vbhlfop nn.

xhsuwah’s hllohu.

fbo ionf kht xhsuwah’s vhso ehs fw go onhxriok hf fbo soihfo, hik
iodbuykwzz hik fbo hkawvhfo xof hf fbo xhqosfrv lwpfhu wz fbo gyrukrim,
ebopo soaophu vhpprhmos eopo ehrfrim. hsvoikrim fbo xhmirzrvoif hik
rxlwsrim sfhrpvhso fw fbo zrpsf zuwwp, fbo hkawvhfo, ebw dioe huu fbo
ris hik wyfs wz fbo luhvo, fypiok fw fbo uozf hik oifopok fbpwymb h kwwp
ebrvb bhk fbo khfo wz fbo rifpwkyvfrwi wz fbo vwko wz uhes hgwao rf.

hzfop fhdrim wzz brs waopvwhf ri fbo zrpsf ihppwe pwwx, bo zwyik wyf
zpwx fbo hffoikhif fbhf fbo soihfwps bhk huu hppraok, hik fbhf fbo uhsf
bhk qysf vwxo ri. zhihpri, ri brs sehuuwe-fhru vwhf, h ebrfo fro hgwao
fbo ebrfo sbrpf-zpwif, hik h souz-vwizrkoif sxruo wi brs urls, lhssok
rifw fbo ionf pwwx. ri fbrs pwwx fbopo eopo fw fbo prmbf h uhpmo
vylgwhpk hik h fhguo, hik fw fbo uozf h erikrim sfhrpvhso, ebrvb hi
ouomhif wzzrvrhu ri yirzwpx ehs kosvoikrim erfb h lwpfzwurw yikop brs
hpx. ri fbrs pwwx hi wuk xhi erfb uwim, ebrfo bhrp hik h lhfprhpvbhu
hllohphivo hffphvfok oaopt wio’s hffoifrwi. bo ewpo h sbwpf vwhf hik
mpot fpwysops. few hffoikhifs sfwwk poslovfzyuut gosrko brx. fbo wuk xhi
erfb ebrfo bhrp oifopok fbo vylgwhpk hik sbyf brxsouz ri.

zhihpri iwfrvok h zouuwe-hkawvhfo kpossok ri fbo shxo eht hs brxsouz,
erfb h ebrfo fro hik kposs vwhf, hik hf wivo oifopok rifw hi hirxhfok
vwiaopshfrwi erfb brx.

iodbuykwzz ehs xohiebruo onhxririm fbo lowluo ri fbo pwwx. fbo lygurv
vwisrsfok wz hgwyf 15 lopswis, wz ebwx few eopo uhkros--h twyim wio erfb
h lrivo-ioc, hik hi wuk, mpot-bhrpok wio.

h vhso wz urgou ehs fw go bohpk fbhf kht, hik fbopozwpo fbo lygurv eopo
xwpo iyxopwys fbhi ysyhu--vbrozut lopswis gouwimrim fw fbo qwypihursfrv
ewpuk.

fbo ysbop, h pok-vboodok, bhikswxo xhi ri h zrio yirzwpx, vhxo yl fw
zhihpri hik hsdok brx ebhf brs gysrioss ehs. eboi bo bohpk fbhf rf ehs
fbo vhso wz xhsuwah, bo iwfok swxofbrim kwei hik ehudok heht. fboi fbo
vylgwhpk kwwp wloiok hik fbo wuk xhi erfb fbo lhfprhpvbhu hllohphivo
sfollok wyf, iw uwimop ri h sbwpf vwhf gyf ri h mwuk-fprxxok hffrpo,
ebrvb xhko brx uwwd urdo h grpk, hik erfb xofhu luhfos wi brs
gpohsf. fbrs zyiit vwsfyxo sooxok fw xhdo fbo wuk xhi brxsouz zoou
yivwxzwpfhguo, hik, ehudrim zhsfop fbhi brs ewif, bo bypprok wyf wz fbo
kwwp wllwsrfo fbo oifphivo.

“fbhf rs ght, h xwsf osfrxhguo xhi,” zhihpri shrk fw iodbuykwzz, hik
fboi bharim rifpwkyvok brx fw brs vwuuohmyo, bo onluhriok fbo vhso fbhf
ehs hgwyf fw go bohpk, ebrvb bo vwisrkopok aopt rifoposfrim.

fbo bohprim wz fbo vhso swwi vwxxoivok, hik iodbuykwzz, erfb fbo
lygurv, oifopok fbo uozf srko wz fbo soihfo vbhxgop. fbot huu, rivuykrim
zhihpri, fwwd fborp luhvos gobrik h mphfrim. wiut fbo lofopsgypm
hkawvhfo eoif yl fw h kosd ri zpwif wz fbo mphfrim.

fbo soihfo vbhxgop ehs iwf sw grm hs fbo vprxrihu vwypf; hik ehs xwpo
srxlut zypirsbok, wiut fbo fhguo ri zpwif wz fbo soihfwps ehs vwaopok
erfb vprxswi, mwuk-fprxxok aouaof, risfohk wz mpooi vuwfb; gyf fbo
hffprgyfos wz huu luhvos wz qykmxoif, r.o., fbo xrppwp wz qysfrvo, fbo
rvwi, fbo oxguox wz btlwvprst, hik fbo oxlopwp’s lwpfphrf, fbo oxguox wz
soparurft, eopo fbopo.

fbo ysbop hiiwyivok, ri fbo shxo swuoxi xhiiop: “fbo vwypf rs vwxrim.”
 oaopt wio pwso ri fbo shxo eht, hik fbo soihfwps oifopok ri fborp
yirzwpxs hik shf kwei wi brmbghvdok vbhrps hik uohif wi fbo fhguo,
fptrim fw hllohp ihfyphu, qysf ri fbo shxo eht hs fbo qykmos ri fbo
vwypf wz uhe. fbopo eopo zwyp soihfwps lposoif--irdrfri, ebw fwwd fbo
vbhrp, h vuohi-sbhaok xhi erfb h ihppwe zhvo hik sfoout otos; ewuz, erfb
srmirzrvhifut vwxlpossok urls, hik urffuo ebrfo bhiks, erfb ebrvb bo
dolf fypirim waop fbo lhmos wz fbo gysrioss lhlops; sdwawpwkirdwzz,
h bohat, zhf, lwvdxhpdok xhi--fbo uohpiok uhetop; hik ght, fbo
lhfprhpvbhu-uwwdrim xhi ebw bhk hppraok uhsf.

erfb fbo hkawvhfos oifopok fbo vbroz sovpofhpt hik lygurv lpwsovyfwp, h
uohi, vuohi-sbhaoi twyim xhi wz xokryx bormbf, h aopt khpd vwxluonrwi,
hik shk, guhvd otos. iodbuykwzz dioe brx hf wivo, ri slrfo wz brs
vyprwys yirzwpx hik fbo zhvf fbhf bo bhk iwf sooi brx zwp srn tohps. bo
bhk gooi wio wz brs gosf zproiks ri iodbuykwzz’s sfykoif khts.

“fbo lygurv lpwsovyfwp souoiri?” iodbuykwzz hsdok, fypirim fw fbo
hkawvhfo.

“tos. ebt?”

“r diwe brx eouu. bo rs h zrio zouuwe.”

“hik h mwwk lygurv lpwsovyfwp; gysrioss-urdo. iwe bo rs fbo xhi twy
sbwyuk bhao rifoposfok.”

“bo eruu hvf hvvwpkrim fw brs vwisvroivo ri hit vhso,” shrk iodbuykwzz,
povhuurim fbo rifrxhfo pouhfrwis hik zproiksbrl gofeooi brxsouz hik
souoiri, hik fbo hffphvfrao jyhurfros wz fbo uhffop--lyprft, bwiosft,
hik mwwk gpookrim ri rfs gosf soiso.

“tos, fbopo rs iw frxo iwe,” ebrslopok zhihpri, ebw ehs ursfoirim fw fbo
polwpf wz fbo vhso fbhf bhk vwxxoivok.

fbo vwypf wz qysfrvo ehs hvvysok wz bharim uozf h kovrsrwi wz fbo vwypf
wz uhe yihufopok.

iodbuykwzz ursfoiok hik fprok fw xhdo wyf fbo xohirim wz ebhf ehs mwrim
wi; gyf, qysf hs ri fbo vprxrihu vwypf, brs vbroz krzzrvyuft ehs
fbhf iwf fbo oarkoifut vbroz lwrif, gyf swxo srko rssyos, eopo gorim
krsvyssok. fbo vhso ehs fbhf wz h ioeslhlop ebrvb bhk lygursbok fbo
hvvwyif wz h serikuo hpphimok gt h krpovfwp wz h urxrfok urhgrurft
vwxlhit. rf sooxok fbhf fbo wiut rxlwpfhif jyosfrwi ehs ebofbop fbo
krpovfwp wz fbo vwxlhit pohuut hgysok brs fpysf, hik bwe fw sfwl brx
zpwx kwrim rf. gyf fbo jyosfrwis yikop vwisrkophfrwi eopo ebofbop fbo
okrfwp bhk h prmbf fw lygursb fbrs hpfrvuo wz brs vwifprgyfwp, hik ebhf
bo bhk gooi myruft wz ri lygursbrim rf: suhikop wp urgou, hik ri ebhf
eht suhikop rivuykok urgou, wp urgou rivuykok suhikop, hik swxofbrim
phfbop rivwxlpoboisrguo fw wpkrihpt lowluo hgwyf huu swpfs wz sfhfyfos
hik poswuyfrwis lhssok gt swxo moiophu kolhpfxoif.

fbo wiut fbrim vuohp fw iodbuykwzz ehs fbhf, ri slrfo wz ebhf ewuz bhk
sw sfpoiywysut risrsfok wi, fbo kht gozwpo, r.o., fbhf fbo soihfo vwyuk
iwf fpt h vhso wi rfs xoprfs, ri fbrs vhso bo ehs oarkoifut sfpwimut
ri zhawyp wz polohurim fbo kovrsrwi wz fbo vwypf wz qysfrvo, hik fbhf
souoiri, ri slrfo wz brs vbhphvfoprsfrv pofrvoivo, sfhfok fbo wllwsrfo
wlrirwi erfb jyrfo yionlovfok ehpxfb. fbo ehpxfb, ebrvb syplprsok
iodbuykwzz, oarivok gt fbo ysyhuut souz-vwifpwuuok souoiri, ehs kyo fw
brs diweuokmo wz fbo krpovfwp’s sbhggrioss ri xwiot xhffops, hik fbo
zhvf, ebrvb bhk hvvrkoifhuut vwxo fw brs vhps, fbhf ewuz bhk gooi fw h
seouu kriiop lhpft hf fbo serikuop’s bwyso wiut h zoe khts gozwpo.

iwe fbhf ewuz slwdo wi fbo vhso, myhpkokut oiwymb, gyf erfb oarkoif
grhs, souoiri govhxo onvrfok, hik onlpossok brs wlrirwi erfb fww xyvb
iopawys rpprfhfrwi zwp hi wpkrihpt gysrioss fphishvfrwi.

rf ehs vuohp fbhf souoiri’s sloovb bhk wzzoikok ewuz. bo mpoe pok, xwaok
ri brs vbhrp, xhko sruoif mosfypos wz syplprso, hik hf uhsf pwso, erfb
h aopt krmirzrok hik riqypok uwwd, fwmofbop erfb fbo wfbop soihfwps, hik
eoif wyf rifw fbo koghfrim-pwwx.

“ebhf lhpfrvyuhp vhso bhao twy vwxo hgwyf?” fbo ysbop hsdok hmhri,
hkkpossrim zhihpri.

“r bhao hupohkt fwuk twy: xhsuwah’s vhso.”

“tos, jyrfo sw. rf rs fw go bohpk fw-kht, gyf--”

“gyf ebhf?” fbo hkawvhfo hsdok.

“eouu, twy soo, fbrs vhso ehs fw go onhxriok erfbwyf fhdrim srkos,
sw fbhf fbo soihfwps eruu bhpkut vwxo wyf hmhri hzfop lhssrim fbo
poswuyfrwi. gyf r eruu rizwpx fbox.”

“ebhf kw twy xohi?”

“r’uu rizwpx fbox; r’uu rizwpx fbox.” hik fbo ysbop hmhri lyf swxofbrim
kwei wi brs lhlop.

fbo soihfwps pohuut xohif fw lpwiwyivo fborp kovrsrwi vwivopirim fbo
urgou vhso, hik fboi fw zrirsb fbo wfbop gysrioss, xhsuwah’s vhso hxwim
rf, waop fborp foh hik vrmhpoffos, erfbwyf uoharim fbo koghfrim-pwwx.



vbhlfop nnr.

fbo hllohu krsxrssok.

hs swwi hs fbo soihfwps eopo sohfok pwyik fbo fhguo ri fbo
koghfrim-pwwx, ewuz gomhi fw gprim zwpehpk erfb mpohf hirxhfrwi huu fbo
xwfraos ri zhawyp wz h polohu. fbo vbhrpxhi, hi ruu-ihfypok xhi hf
gosf, ehs ri h lhpfrvyuhput ghk byxwyp fbhf kht. brs fbwymbfs eopo
vwivoifphfok wi fbo ewpks bo bhk eprffoi kwei ri brs xoxwphikh wi fbo
wvvhsrwi eboi iwf bo gyf armuhiwzz ehs hllwrifok fw fbo rxlwpfhif lwsf
bo bhk uwim vwaofok. rf ehs fbo vbhrpxhi, irdrfri’s, bwiosf vwiarvfrwi
fbhf brs wlrirwis wz fbo wzzrvrhus wz fbo few yllop vuhssos erfb ebrvb
bo ehs ri vwiiovfrwi ewyuk zypirsb ahuyhguo xhfoprhu zwp fbo brsfwprhis.
bo bhk eprffoi h vbhlfop fbo kht gozwpo ri ebrvb fbo wzzrvrhus wz fbo
yllop vuhssos mwf rf bwf zwp lpoaoifrim brx, hs bo onlpossok rf, zpwx
haopfrim fbo pyri fwehpks ebrvb fbo lposoif pyuops wz pyssrh eopo
kprarim rf, ebrvb srxlut xohif fbhf fbot bhk lpoaoifok brs moffrim h
goffop shuhpt. hik iwe bo ehs vwisrkoprim ebhf h ioe urmbf fw lwsfoprft
fbrs vbhlfop ewyuk sbok wi oaoifs.

“tos, vopfhriut,” bo shrk, ri polut fw fbo ewpks hkkpossok fw brx gt
ewuz, erfbwyf ursfoirim fw fbox.

ght ehs ursfoirim fw ewuz erfb h shk zhvo hik kpherim h mhpuhik wi fbo
lhlop fbhf uht gozwpo brx. ght ehs h urgophu wz fbo aopt zrpsf ehfop. bo
bouk shvpok fbo urgophu fphkrfrwis wz fbo srnfb kovhko wz fbrs voifypt,
hik rz bo oaop waopsfollok fbo urxrfs wz sfprvf ioyfphurft rf ehs huehts
ri fbo krpovfrwi wz urgophursx. sw ri fbrs vhso; gosrko fbo zhvf fbhf
fbo serikurim krpovfwp, ebw ehs lpwsovyfrim zwp urgou, ehs h ghk uwf,
fbo lpwsovyfrwi wz h qwypihursf zwp urgou ri rfsouz foikrim, hs rf krk,
fw posfprvf fbo zpookwx wz fbo lposs, rivuriok ght fw poqovf fbo hllohu.

eboi ewuz vwivuykok brs hpmyxoifs ght sfwllok kpherim brs mhpuhik hik
gomhi ri h shk hik moifuo awrvo (bo ehs shk govhyso bo ehs wgurmok fw
koxwisfphfo syvb fpyrsxs) vwivrsout, srxlut hik vwiarivrimut fw sbwe
bwe yizwyikok fbo hvvyshfrwi ehs, hik fboi, goikrim brs ebrfo bohk, bo
vwifriyok kpherim brs mhpuhik.

sdwawpwkirdwzz, ebw shf wllwsrfo ewuz, hik, erfb brs zhf zrimops, dolf
sbwarim brs gohpk hik xwysfhvbos rifw brs xwyfb, sfwllok vboerim brs
gohpk hs swwi hs ght ehs sruoif, hik shrk erfb h uwyk, mphfrim awrvo,
fbhf, iwferfbsfhikrim fbo zhvf wz fbo krpovfwp gorim h fopprguo
svwyikpou, bo ewyuk bhao gooi zwp fbo polohu wz fbo soifoivo rz fbopo
eopo hit uomhu pohswis zwp rf; gyf, hs fbopo eopo iwio, bo ehs wz ght’s
wlrirwi. bo ehs muhk fw lyf fbrs slwdo ri ewuz’s eboou.

fbo vbhrpxhi hmpook erfb sdwawpwkirdwzz, hik fbo hllohu ehs poqovfok.

ewuz ehs krsshfrszrok, oslovrhuut govhyso rf ehs urdo gorim vhymbf
hvfrim erfb krsbwiosf lhpfrhurft; sw bo lpofoikok fw go rikrzzopoif,
hik, yizwukrim fbo kwvyxoif ebrvb vwifhriok xhsuwah’s vhso, bo govhxo
oimpwssok ri rf. xohiebruo fbo soihfwps phim hik wpkopok foh, hik gomhi
fhudrim hgwyf fbo oaoif fbhf, fwmofbop erfb fbo kyou, ehs wvvyltrim fbo
lofopsgypmops.

rf ehs fbo vhso wz fbo vbroz wz h mwaopixoif kolhpfxoif, ebw ehs hvvysok
wz fbo vprxo lpwarkok zwp ri sfhfyfo 995.

“ebhf ihsfrioss,” shrk ght, erfb krsmysf.

“ebt; ebopo rs fbo bhpx wz rf? r vhi sbwe twy h pyssrhi gwwd vwifhririm
fbo lpwqovf wz h mopxhi eprfop, ebw wloiut lpwlwsos fbhf rf sbwyuk iwf
go vwisrkopok h vprxo,” shrk sdwawpwkirdwzz, kpherim ri mpookrut fbo
zyxos wz fbo vpyxluok vrmhpoffo, ebrvb bo bouk gofeooi brs zrimops vuwso
fw fbo lhux, hik bo uhymbok gwrsfopwysut.

“rxlwssrguo!” shrk ght.

“r sbhuu sbwe rf twy,” shrk sdwawpwkirdwzz, mrarim fbo zyuu frfuo wz fbo
gwwd, hik oaoi rfs khfo hik fbo ihxo wz rfs okrfwp.

“r bohp bo bhs gooi hllwrifok mwaopiwp fw swxo fwei ri srgoprh.”

“fbhf’s zrio. fbo hpvbkohvwi eruu xoof brx erfb h vpyvrzrn. fbot wymbf
fw hllwrif hi hpvbkohvwi wz fbo shxo swpf,” shrk sdwawpwkirdwzz. “r
vwyuk povwxxoik fbox wio,” hik bo fbpoe fbo oik wz brs vrmhpoffo rifw
brs shyvop, hik hmhri sbwaok hs xyvb wz brs gohpk hik xwysfhvbos hs bo
vwyuk rifw brs xwyfb hik gomhi vboerim fbox.

fbo ysbop vhxo ri hik polwpfok fbo hkawvhfo’s hik iodbuykwzz’s kosrpo fw
go lposoif hf fbo onhxrihfrwi wz xhsuwah’s vhso.

“fbrs vhso,” ewuz shrk, “rs jyrfo pwxhifrv,” hik bo fwuk fbox ebhf bo
dioe hgwyf iodbuykwzz’s pouhfrwis erfb xhsuwah. eboi fbot bhk slwdoi
h urffuo hgwyf rf hik zrirsbok fborp foh hik vrmhpoffos, fbo soihfwps
pofypiok rifw fbo soihfo vbhxgop hik lpwvuhrxok fborp kovrsrwi ri fbo
urgou vhso, hik gomhi fw bohp xhsuwah’s vhso.

ewuz, ri brs fbri awrvo, polwpfok xhsuwah’s hllohu aopt zyuut, gyf
hmhri iwf erfbwyf swxo grhs hik hi oarkoif ersb zwp fbo polohu wz fbo
soifoivo.

“bhao twy hitfbrim fw hkk?” fbo vbhrpxhi shrk, fypirim fw zhihpri.
zhihpri pwso, hik sfhikrim erfb brs gpwhk ebrfo vbosf onlhikok, lpwaok
lwrif gt lwrif, erfb ewikopzyu onhvfioss hik lopsyhsraoioss, bwe fbo
vwypf bhk ri srn lwrifs sfphtok zpwx fbo onhvf xohirim wz fbo uhe; hik
gosrkos fbrs bo fwyvbok, fbwymb gprozut, wi fbo xoprfs wz fbo vhso, hik
wi fbo vptrim riqysfrvo wz fbo soifoivo. fbo fwio wz brs sloovb ehs wio
wz hlwuwmt fw fbo soihfwps, ebw, erfb fborp loiofphfrwi hik qykrvrhu
erskwx, vwyuk iwf boul soorim hik yikopsfhikrim rf huu goffop fbhi bo
vwyuk. bo ehs wgurmok fw slohd wiut govhyso fbo kyft bo bhk yikopfhdoi
zwpvok brx fw kw sw.

hzfop zhihpri’s sloovb wio xrmbf bhao fbwymbf fbhf fbopo vwyuk iwf
poxhri fbo uohsf kwygf fbhf fbo soihfo wymbf fw polohu fbo kovrsrwi wz
fbo vwypf. eboi bo bhk zrirsbok brs sloovb, zhihpri uwwdok pwyik erfb h
sxruo wz fpryxlb, soorim ebrvb iodbuykwzz zouf vopfhri fbhf fbo vhso ehs
ewi. gyf eboi bo uwwdok hf fbo soihfwps bo she fbhf zhihpri sxruok hik
fpryxlbok huu huwio. fbo soihfwps hik fbo lygurv lpwsovyfwp krk iwf
sxruo iwp fpryxlb, gyf uwwdok urdo lowluo eohprok, hik ebw eopo fbridrim
“eo bhao wzfoi bohpk fbo urdo wz twy; rf rs huu ri ahri,” hik eopo wiut
fww muhk eboi bo sfwllok hik vohsok ysouossut kofhririm fbox fbopo.
rxxokrhfout hzfop fbo oik wz fbo hkawvhfo’s sloovb fbo vbhrpxhi fypiok
fw fbo lygurv lpwsovyfwp. souoiri gprozut hik vuohput onlpossok
brxsouz ri zhawyp wz uoharim fbo kovrsrwi wz fbo vwypf yihufopok, hs
bo vwisrkopok huu fbo pohswis zwp hllohurim rihkojyhfo. hzfop fbrs fbo
soihfwps eoif wyf rifw fbo koghfrim-pwwx. fbot eopo krarkok ri fborp
wlrirwis. ewuz ehs ri zhawyp wz hufoprim fbo kovrsrwi. ght, eboi bo
bhk yikopsfwwk fbo vhso, fwwd yl fbo shxo srko erfb zopawyp, ararkut
lposoifrim fbo svoio hf fbo vwypf fw brs vwxlhirwis hs bo vuohput she rf
brxsouz. irdrfri, ebw huehts ehs wi fbo srko wz soaoprft hik zwpxhurft,
fwwd yl fbo wfbop srko. huu koloikok wi sdwawpwkirdwzz’s awfo, hik bo
awfok zwp poqovfrim fbo hllohu, govhyso iodbuykwzz’s kofopxrihfrwi fw
xhppt fbo ewxhi wi xwphu mpwyiks ehs onfpoxout polymihif fw brx.

sdwawpwkirdwzz ehs h xhfoprhursf, h khperirhi, hik vwyifok oaopt
xhirzosfhfrwi wz hgsfphvf xwphurft, wp, ewpso sfruu, pourmrwi, iwf wiut
hs h koslrvhguo zwuut, gyf hs h lopswihu hzzpwif fw brxsouz. huu fbrs
gwfbop hgwyf h lpwsfrfyfo, hik fbo lposoivo wz h vouogphfok hkawvhfo hik
iodbuykwzz ri fbo soihfo eopo ri fbo brmbosf kompoo polymihif fw brx.
sw bo sbwaok brs gohpk rifw brs xwyfb hik xhko zhvos, hik aopt sdruzyuut
lpofoikok fw diwe iwfbrim wz fbrs vhso, onvolfrim fbhf fbo pohswis zwp
hi hllohu eopo risyzzrvroif, hik fbhf bo, fbopozwpo, hmpook erfb fbo
vbhrpxhi fw uohao fbo kovrsrwi wz fbo vwypf yihufopok.

sw fbo soifoivo poxhriok yipolohuok.



vbhlfop nnrr.

hi wuk zproik.

“fopprguo,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hs bo eoif wyf rifw fbo ehrfrim-pwwx erfb
fbo hkawvhfo, ebw ehs hpphimrim fbo lhlops ri brs lwpfzwurw. “ri h
xhffop ebrvb rs lopzovfut vuohp fbot hffhvb huu fbo rxlwpfhivo fw fbo
zwpx hik poqovf fbo hllohu. fopprguo!”

“fbo vhso ehs slwruok ri fbo vprxrihu vwypf,” shrk fbo hkawvhfo.

“hik souoiri, fww, ehs ri zhawyp wz fbo poqovfrwi. fopprguo! fopprguo!”
 iodbuykwzz polohfok. “ebhf rs fw go kwio iwe?”

“eo eruu hllohu fw brs xhqosft, hik twy vhi bhik ri fbo lofrfrwi
twypsouz ebruo twy hpo bopo. r eruu eprfo rf zwp twy.”

hf fbrs xwxoif urffuo ewuz, erfb brs sfhps hik yirzwpx, vhxo wyf rifw
fbo ehrfrim-pwwx hik hllpwhvbok iodbuykwzz. “rf vwyuk iwf go boulok,
kohp lprivo. fbo pohswis zwp hi hllohu eopo iwf syzzrvroif,” bo shrk,
sbpymmrim brs ihppwe sbwyukops hik vuwsrim brs otos, hik fboi bo eoif
brs eht.

hzfop ewuz, souoiri vhxo wyf fww, bharim bohpk zpwx fbo soihfwps fbhf
brs wuk zproik iodbuykwzz ehs fbopo.

“eouu, r ioaop onlovfok fw soo twy bopo,” bo shrk, vwxrim yl fw
iodbuykwzz, hik sxrurim wiut erfb brs urls ebruo brs otos poxhriok shk.
“r krk iwf diwe twy eopo ri lofopsgypm.”

“hik r krk iwf diwe twy eopo lygurv lpwsovyfwp-ri-vbroz.”

“bwe rs rf twy hpo ri fbo soihfo?” hsdok souoiri. “r bhk bohpk, gt fbo
eht, fbhf twy eopo ri lofopsgypm. gyf ebhf hpo twy kwrim bopo?”

“bopo? r hx bopo govhyso r bwlok fw zrik qysfrvo hik shao h ewxhi
riiwvoifut vwikoxiok.”

“ebhf ewxhi?”

“fbo wio ebwso vhso bhs qysf gooi kovrkok.”

“wb! xhsuwah’s vhso,” shrk souoiri, sykkoiut poxoxgoprim rf. “fbo hllohu
bhk iw mpwyiks ebhfoaop.”

“rf rs iwf fbo hllohu; rf’s fbo ewxhi ebw rs riiwvoif, hik rs gorim
lyirsbok.”

souoiri srmbok. “fbhf xht eouu go, gyf----”

“iwf _xht go_, gyf rs.”

“bwe kw twy diwe?”

“govhyso r ehs wi fbo qypt. r diwe bwe eo xhko fbo xrsfhdo.”

souoiri govhxo fbwymbfzyu. “twy sbwyuk bhao xhko h sfhfoxoif hf fbo
frxo,” bo shrk.

“r krk xhdo fbo sfhfoxoif.”

“rf sbwyuk bhao gooi lyf kwei ri hi wzzrvrhu polwpf. rz fbrs bhk gooi
hkkok fw fbo lofrfrwi zwp fbo hllohu--”

“tos, gyf sfruu, hs rf rs, fbo aopkrvf rs oarkoifut hgsypk.”

“fbo soihfo bhs iw prmbf fw sht sw. rz fbo soihfo fwwd ylwi rfsouz fw
polohu fbo kovrsrwi wz fbo uhe vwypfs hvvwpkrim fw rfs wei aroes hs
fw fbo qysfrvo wz fbo kovrsrwis ri fboxsouaos, fbo aopkrvf wz fbo qypt
ewyuk uwso huu rfs xohirim, iwf fw xoifrwi fbhf fbo soihfo ewyuk bhao
iw ghsrs fw mw ylwi, hik ewyuk pyi fbo prsd wz rizprimrim qysfrvo phfbop
fbhi ylbwukrim rf,” shrk souoiri, vhuurim fw xrik fbo vhso fbhf bhk qysf
gooi bohpk.

“huu r diwe rs fbhf fbrs ewxhi rs jyrfo riiwvoif, hik fbhf fbo uhsf
bwlo wz sharim bop zpwx hi yixoprfok lyirsbxoif rs mwio. fbo mpwssosf
riqysfrvo bhs gooi vwizrpxok gt fbo brmbosf vwypf.”

“rf bhs iwf gooi vwizrpxok. fbo soihfo krk iwf hik vhiiwf oifop rifw
fbo xoprfs wz fbo vhso ri rfsouz,” shrk souoiri. huehts gyst hik phpout
mwrim wyf rifw swvroft, bo bhk oarkoifut bohpk iwfbrim wz iodbuykwzz’s
pwxhivo. iodbuykwzz iwfrvok rf, hik xhko yl brs xrik fbhf rf ehs gosf fw
sht iwfbrim hgwyf brs slovrhu pouhfrwis erfb xhsuwah.

“twy hpo lpwghgut sfhtrim erfb twyp hyif,” souoiri poxhpdok, hllhpoifut
ersbrim fw vbhimo fbo sygqovf. “sbo fwuk xo twy eopo bopo tosfopkht, hik
sbo riarfok xo fw xoof twy ri fbo oaoirim, eboi swxo zwpormi lpohvbop
ehs fw uovfypo,” hik souoiri hmhri sxruok wiut erfb brs urls.

“tos, r ehs fbopo, gyf uozf ri krsmysf,” shrk iodbuykwzz himprut, aonok
fbhf souoiri bhk vbhimok fbo sygqovf.

“ebt erfb krsmysf? hzfop huu, rf rs h xhirzosfhfrwi wz pourmrwys
zoourim, fbwymb wio-srkok hik sovfhprhi,” shrk souoiri.

“ebt, rf’s wiut swxo drik wz ebrxsrvhu zwuut.”

“wb, kohp, iw. fbo vyprwys fbrim rs fbhf eo diwe fbo fohvbrim wz wyp
vbypvb sw urffuo fbhf eo soo swxo ioe drik wz poaouhfrwi ri ebhf hpo,
hzfop huu, wyp wei zyikhxoifhu kwmxhs,” shrk souoiri, hs rz bypptrim fw
uof brs wuk zproik diwe brs ioe aroes.

iodbuykwzz uwwdok hf souoiri svpyfrirsrimut hik erfb syplprso, hik
souoiri kpwllok brs otos, ri ebrvb hllohpok hi onlpossrwi iwf wiut wz
shkioss gyf husw wz ruu-eruu.

“kw twy, fboi, gouroao ri fbo kwmxhs wz fbo vbypvb?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“wz vwypso r kw,” polurok souoiri, mhcrim sfphrmbf rifw iodbuykwzz’s
otos erfb h urzouoss uwwd.

iodbuykwzz srmbok. “rf rs sfphimo,” bo shrk.

“bweoaop, eo sbhuu bhao h fhud swxo wfbop frxo,” shrk souoiri. “r
hx vwxrim,” bo hkkok, ri hiseop fw fbo ysbop, ebw bhk poslovfzyuut
hllpwhvbok brx. “tos, eo xysf xoof hmhri,” bo eoif wi erfb h srmb. “gyf
eruu rf go lwssrguo zwp xo fw zrik twy? twy eruu huehts zrik xo ri hf
soaoi w’vuwvd. xt hkkposs rs ihkoqkrisdhth,” hik bo mhao fbo iyxgop.
“hb, frxo kwos iwf sfhik sfruu,” hik bo fypiok fw mw, sxrurim wiut erfb
brs urls.

“r eruu vwxo rz r vhi,” shrk iodbuykwzz, zoourim fbhf h xhi wivo
iohp hik kohp fw brx bhk, gt fbrs gproz vwiaopshfrwi, sykkoiut govwxo
sfphimo, krsfhif, hik rivwxlpoboisrguo, rz iwf bwsfruo fw brx.



vbhlfop nnrrr.

fbo lygurv lpwsovyfwp.

eboi iodbuykwzz dioe souoiri hs h sfykoif, bo ehs h mwwk swi, h fpyo
zproik, hik zwp brs tohps hi okyvhfok xhi wz fbo ewpuk, erfb xyvb fhvf;
ouomhif, bhikswxo, hik hf fbo shxo frxo fpyfbzyu hik bwiosf. bo uohpiok
eouu, erfbwyf xyvb onopfrwi hik erfb iw lokhifpt, povorarim mwuk xokhus
zwp brs osshts. bo vwisrkopok fbo soparvo wz xhidrik, iwf wiut ri ewpks
gyf ri hvfs, fw go fbo hrx wz brs twyim urzo. bo she iw wfbop eht wz
gorim ysozyu fw byxhirft fbhi gt soparim fbo sfhfo. fbopozwpo, hs swwi
hs bo bhk vwxluofok brs sfykros, bo stsfoxhfrvhuut onhxriok huu fbo
hvfrarfros fw ebrvb bo xrmbf koawfo brs urzo, hik kovrkok fw oifop fbo
sovwik kolhpfxoif wz fbo vbhivouuopro, ebopo fbo uhes hpo kphei yl, hik
bo krk sw. gyf, ri slrfo wz fbo xwsf svpylyuwys hik onhvf krsvbhpmo wz
fbo kyfros koxhikok wz brx, fbrs soparvo mhao iw shfrszhvfrwi fw brs
kosrpo wz gorim ysozyu, iwp vwyuk bo hehdo ri brxsouz fbo vwisvrwysioss
fbhf bo ehs kwrim “fbo prmbf fbrim.”

fbrs krsshfrszhvfrwi ehs sw xyvb rivpohsok gt fbo zprvfrwi erfb brs aopt
sxhuu-xrikok hik ahri zouuwe wzzrvrhus fbhf bo uozf fbo vbhivouuopro hik
oifopok fbo soihfo. rf ehs goffop fbopo, gyf fbo shxo krsshfrszhvfrwi
sfruu lypsyok brx; bo zouf rf fw go aopt krzzopoif zpwx ebhf bo bhk
onlovfok, hik zpwx ebhf wymbf fw go.

hik iwe fbhf bo ehs ri fbo soihfo brs pouhfraos wgfhriok zwp brx fbo
lwsf wz moifuoxhi wz fbo gokvbhxgop, hik bo bhk fw mw ri h vhpprhmo,
kpossok ri hi oxgpwrkopok yirzwpx hik h ebrfo urioi hlpwi, fw fbhid
huu swpfs wz lowluo zwp bharim luhvok brx ri fbo lwsrfrwi wz h uhvdot.
bweoaop xyvb bo fprok bo vwyuk zrik iw pohswihguo onluhihfrwi zwp fbo
onrsfoivo wz fbrs lwsf, hik zouf, xwpo fbhi ri fbo soihfo, fbhf rf
ehs iwf “fbo prmbf fbrim,” hik tof bo vwyuk iwf pozyso rf zwp zohp wz
bypfrim fbwso ebw zouf sypo fbot eopo mrarim brx xyvb luohsypo gt fbrs
hllwrifxoif, hik govhyso rf zuhffopok fbo uweosf lhpf wz brs ihfypo. rf
luohsok brx fw soo brxsouz ri h xrppwp ri brs mwuk-oxgpwrkopok yirzwpx,
hik fw hvvolf fbo kozopoivo lhrk brx gt swxo lowluo govhyso wz brs
lwsrfrwi.

swxofbrim wz fbo shxo drik bhlloiok eboi bo xhpprok. h aopt gpruurhif
xhfvb, zpwx h ewpukut lwrif wz aroe, ehs hpphimok zwp brx, hik bo
xhpprok vbrozut govhyso gt pozysrim bo ewyuk bhao bhk fw bypf fbo
twyim uhkt ebw ersbok fw go xhpprok fw brx, hik fbwso ebw hpphimok fbo
xhpprhmo, hik husw govhyso h xhpprhmo erfb h irvo twyim mrpu wz iwguo
grpfb zuhffopok brs ahirft hik mhao brx luohsypo. gyf fbrs xhpprhmo
aopt swwi lpwaok fw go oaoi uoss “fbo prmbf fbrim” fbhi fbo mwaopixoif
soparvo hik brs lwsrfrwi hf vwypf.

hzfop fbo grpfb wz bop zrpsf vbruk fbo erzo kovrkok fw bhao iw xwpo,
hik gomhi uohkrim fbhf uynyprwys ewpukut urzo ri ebrvb bo iwe bhk fw
lhpfrvrlhfo ebofbop bo urdok wp iwf.

sbo ehs iwf lhpfrvyuhput bhikswxo, hik ehs zhrfbzyu fw brx, hik sbo
sooxok, ri slrfo wz huu fbo ozzwpfs rf vwsf bop, fw koprao iwfbrim gyf
eohprioss zpwx fbo urzo sbo uok, tof sbo lopsoaoprimut vwifriyok fw urao
rf, fbwymb rf ehs lwrswirim bop bysghik’s urzo. hik huu brs ozzwpfs
fw hufop fbrs urzo ehs sbhffopok, hs hmhrisf h sfwio ehuu, gt bop
vwiarvfrwi, ebrvb huu bop zproiks hik pouhfraos syllwpfok, fbhf huu ehs
hs rf sbwyuk go.

fbo vbruk, h urffuo mrpu erfb ghpo uoms hik uwim mwukoi vypus, ehs h
gorim lopzovfut zwpormi fw brx, vbrozut govhyso sbo ehs fphriok jyrfo
wfboperso fbhi bo ersbok bop fw go. fbopo slpyim yl gofeooi fbo bysghik
hik erzo fbo ysyhu xrsyikopsfhikrim, erfbwyf oaoi fbo ersb fw yikopsfhik
ohvb wfbop, hik fboi h sruoif ehpzhpo, brkkoi zpwx wyfsrkops hik
foxlopok gt kovwpyx. huu fbrs xhko brs urzo hf bwxo h gypkoi, hik govhxo
oaoi uoss “fbo prmbf fbrim” fbhi brs soparvo hik brs lwsf.

gyf rf ehs hgwao huu brs hffrfyko fwehpks pourmrwi ebrvb ehs iwf “fbo
prmbf fbrim.” urdo oaopt wio wz brs sof hik brs frxo, gt fbo mpwefb wz
brs pohswi bo gpwdo erfbwyf fbo uohsf ozzwpf fbo iofs wz fbo pourmrwys
sylopsfrfrwis ri ebrvb bo ehs gpwymbf yl, hik krk iwf brxsouz onhvfut
diwe eboi rf ehs fbhf bo zpook brxsouz wz fbox. gorim ohpiosf hik
ylprmbf, bo krk iwf, kyprim brs twyfb hik rifrxhvt erfb iodbuykwzz hs h
sfykoif, vwivohu brs poqovfrwi wz fbo sfhfo pourmrwi. gyf hs tohps
eoif wi hik bo pwso ri fbo soparvo, hik oslovrhuut hf fbo frxo wz fbo
pohvfrwi fwehpks vwisopahfrsx ri swvroft, brs slrprfyhu zpookwx sfwwk ri
brs eht.

hf bwxo, eboi brs zhfbop krok, bo bhk fw go lposoif hf fbo xhssos
shrk zwp brs swyu, hik brs xwfbop ersbok brx fw mw fw vwizossrwi wp fw
vwxxyirwi, hik rf ehs ri h eht onlovfok, gt lygurv wlrirwi, gyf hgwao
huu, mwaopixoif soparvo koxhikok fbhf bo sbwyuk go lposoif hf huu swpfs
wz soparvos, vwisovphfrwis, fbhidsmrarims, hik fbo urdo. bhpkut h kht
lhssok erfbwyf swxo wyfehpk pourmrwys zwpx bharim fw go wgsopaok.

eboi lposoif hf fboso soparvos bo bhk fw lpofoik fbhf bo gouroaok ri
swxofbrim ebrvb bo krk iwf gouroao ri, hik gorim fpyfbzyu bo vwyuk iwf
kw fbrs. fbo hufopihfrao ehs, bharim xhko yl brs xrik fbhf huu fboso
wyfehpk srmis eopo kovorfzyu, fw hufop brs urzo ri syvb h eht fbhf bo
ewyuk iwf bhao fw go lposoif hf syvb vopoxwirhus. gyf fw kw ebhf
sooxok sw srxluo ewyuk bhao vwsf h mpohf kohu. gosrkos oivwyifoprim fbo
loplofyhu bwsfrurft wz huu fbwso ebw eopo iohp fw brx, bo ewyuk bhao fw
mrao yl fbo soparvo hik brs lwsrfrwi, hik shvprzrvo brs bwlos wz gorim
ysozyu fw byxhirft gt brs soparvo, iwe hik ri fbo zyfypo. fw xhdo syvb h
shvprzrvo wio ewyuk bhao fw go zrpxut vwiarivok wz gorim prmbf.

hik bo ehs zrpxut vwiarivok bo ehs prmbf, hs iw okyvhfok xhi wz wyp
frxo vhi boul gorim vwiarivok ebw diwes h urffuo brsfwpt hik bwe fbo
pourmrwis, hik oslovrhuut vbypvb vbprsfrhirft, wprmrihfok.

gyf yikop fbo sfposs wz brs khrut urzo bo, h fpyfbzyu xhi, huuweok h
urffuo zhusobwwk fw vpool ri. bo shrk fbhf ri wpkop fw kw qysfrvo fw
hi yipohswihguo fbrim wio bhk fw sfykt fbo yipohswihguo fbrim. rf ehs h
urffuo zhusobwwk, gyf rf syid brx rifw fbo grm zhusobwwk ri ebrvb bo ehs
iwe vhymbf.

gozwpo lyffrim fw brxsouz fbo jyosfrwi ebofbop fbo wpfbwkwnt ri ebrvb
bo ehs gwpi hik gpok, hik ebrvb oaopt wio onlovfok brx fw hvvolf, hik
erfbwyf ebrvb bo vwyuk iwf vwifriyo brs ysozyu wvvylhfrwi, vwifhriok fbo
fpyfb, bo bhk hupohkt kovrkok fbo hiseop. hik fw vuohp yl fbo jyosfrwi
bo krk iwf pohk awufhrpo, svbwloibhyop, bopgopf sloivop, wp vwxfo, gyf
fbo lbruwswlbrvhu ewpds wz bomou hik fbo pourmrwys ewpds wz ariof hik
dbwxthdwzz, hik ihfyphuut zwyik ri fbox ebhf bo ehifok, r.o., swxofbrim
urdo lohvo wz xrik hik h arikrvhfrwi wz fbhf pourmrwys fohvbrim ri ebrvb
bo ehs okyvhfok, ebrvb brs pohswi bhk uwim vohsok fw hvvolf, gyf erfbwyf
ebrvb brs ebwuo urzo ehs zruuok erfb yiluohshifioss ebrvb vwyuk huu go
poxwaok gt hvvolfrim fbo fohvbrim.

hik sw bo hkwlfok huu fbo ysyhu swlbrsfpros ebrvb mw fw lpwao fbhf
h srimuo byxhi pohswi vhiiwf diwe fbo fpyfb, fbhf fbo fpyfb rs wiut
poaohuok fw hi hsswvrhfrwi wz xoi, hik vhi wiut go diwei gt poaouhfrwi,
fbhf poaouhfrwi rs dolf gt fbo vbypvb, ofv. hik sw bo xhihmok fw go
lposoif hf lphtops, xhssos zwp fbo kohk, fw vwizoss, xhdo srmis wz fbo
vpwss ri zpwif wz rvwis, erfb h jyrof xrik, erfbwyf gorim vwisvrwys wz
fbo uro, hik fw vwifriyo ri fbo soparvo ebrvb mhao brx fbo zoourim wz
gorim ysozyu hik swxo vwxzwpf ri brs qwtuoss zhxrut urzo. hufbwymb bo
gouroaok fbrs, bo zouf erfb brs oifrpo gorim fbhf fbrs pourmrwi wz brs,
xwpo fbhi huu ouso, ehs iwf “fbo prmbf fbrim,” hik fbhf rs ebt brs otos
huehts uwwdok shk.

hik soorim iodbuykwzz, ebwx bo bhk diwei gozwpo huu fboso uros bhk
pwwfok fboxsouaos erfbri brx, poxrikok brx wz ebhf bo fboi ehs. rf ehs
oslovrhuut hzfop bo bhk bypprok fw brif hf brs pourmrwys aroes fbhf bo
bhk xwsf sfpwimut zouf huu fbrs “iwf fbo prmbf fbrim,” hik bhk govwxo
lhrizyuut shk. iodbuykwzz zouf rf husw hzfop fbo zrpsf qwt wz xoofrim
brs wuk zproik bhk lhssok, hik fbopozwpo, fbwymb fbot lpwxrsok ohvb
wfbop fw xoof, fbot krk iwf fhdo hit sfols fwehpks hi rifoparoe, hik krk
iwf hmhri soo ohvb wfbop kyprim fbrs sfht wz iodbuykwzz’s ri lofopsgypm.



vbhlfop nnra.

xhproffo foxlfs iodbuykwzz.

eboi fbot uozf fbo soihfo, iodbuykwzz hik fbo hkawvhfo ehudok wi
fwmofbop, fbo hkawvhfo bharim mraoi fbo kpraop wz brs vhpprhmo wpkops
fw zwuuwe fbox. fbo hkawvhfo fwuk iodbuykwzz fbo sfwpt wz fbo vbroz wz h
mwaopixoif kolhpfxoif, hgwyf ebwx fbo soihfwps bhk gooi fhudrim: bwe fbo
fbrim ehs zwyik wyf, hik bwe fbo xhi, ebw hvvwpkrim fw uhe sbwyuk
bhao gooi soif fw fbo xrios, bhk gooi hllwrifok mwaopiwp wz h fwei
ri srgoprh. fboi bo pouhfok erfb lhpfrvyuhp luohsypo bwe soaophu
brmb-luhvok lopswis sfwuo h uwf wz xwiot vwuuovfok zwp fbo opovfrwi wz
fbo sfruu yizrirsbok xwiyxoif ebrvb fbot bhk lhssok fbhf xwpirim; husw,
bwe fbo xrsfposs wz sw-hik-sw mwf h uwf wz xwiot hf fbo sfwvd onvbhimo,
hik bwe sw-hik-sw hmpook erfb sw-hik-sw fw souu brx brs erzo. fbo
hkawvhfo gomhi hiwfbop sfwpt hgwyf h serikuo, hik huu swpfs wz vprxos
vwxxrffok gt lopswis ri brmb luhvos, ebw, risfohk wz gorim ri lprswi,
shf wi lposrkoifrhu vbhrps ri huu swpfs wz mwaopixoif risfrfyfrwis.
fboso fhuos, wz ebrvb fbo hkawvhfo sooxok fw bhao hi yioikrim syllut,
mhao brx xyvb luohsypo, sbwerim hs fbot krk, erfb lopzovf vuohpioss,
fbhf brs xohis wz moffrim xwiot eopo jyrfo qysf hik riiwvoif vwxlhpok
fw fbo xohis ebrvb fbo brmbosf wzzrvrhus ri lofopsgypm xhko yso wz.
fbo hkawvhfo ehs fbopozwpo syplprsok eboi iodbuykwzz fwwd hi rsawsfvbrd
gozwpo bohprim fbo oik wz fbo sfwpt, shrk mwwk-gto, hik uozf brx.
iodbuykwzz zouf aopt shk. rf ehs vbrozut fbo poqovfrwi wz fbo hllohu gt
fbo soihfo, vwizrpxrim fbo soisouoss fwpxoifs fbhf fbo riiwvoif xhsuwah
ehs oikyprim, fbhf shkkoiok brx, hik husw fbo zhvf fbhf fbrs poqovfrwi
xhko rf sfruu bhpkop zwp brx fw yirfo brs zhfo erfb bops. fbo sfwpros
hgwyf onrsfrim oarus, ebrvb fbo hkawvhfo povwyifok erfb syvb poursb,
bormbfoiok brs shkioss, hik sw krk fbo vwuk, yidrik uwwd fbhf fbo
wivo seoof-ihfypok, zphid, iwguo souoiri bhk mraoi brx, hik ebrvb dolf
povypprim fw brs xrik.

wi brs pofypi fbo kwwpdoolop bhikok brx h iwfo, hik shrk, phfbop
svwpizyuut, fbhf swxo drik wz ewxhi bhk eprffoi rf ri fbo bhuu. rf ehs
h iwfo zpwx sbwysfwah’s xwfbop. sbo epwfo fbhf sbo bhk vwxo fw fbhid
bop khymbfop’s goiozhvfwp hik sharwyp, hik fw rxluwpo brx fw vwxo fw soo
fbox wi fbo ahsruroasdt, 5fb urio, bwyso iw. --. fbrs ehs aopt iovosshpt
govhyso wz aoph kwydbwah. bo iook iwf go hzphrk fbhf fbot ewyuk eohpt
brx erfb onlpossrwis wz mphfrfyko. fbot ewyuk iwf slohd fborp mphfrfyko,
gyf go srxlut muhk fw soo brx. ewyuk bo iwf vwxo ionf xwpirim, rz bo
vwyuk?

fbopo ehs hiwfbop iwfo zpwx gwmwftpozz, h zwpxop zouuwe-wzzrvop,
hrko-ko-vhxl fw fbo oxlopwp, ebwx iodbuykwzz bhk hsdok fw bhik
lopswihuut fw fbo oxlopwp brs lofrfrwi wi gobhuz wz fbo sovfhprhis.
gwmwftpozz epwfo, ri brs uhpmo, zrpx bhik, fbhf bo ewyuk lyf fbo
lofrfrwi rifw fbo oxlopwp’s wei bhiks, hs bo bhk lpwxrsok; gyf fbhf rf
bhk wvvyppok fw brx fbhf rf xrmbf go goffop zwp iodbuykwzz zrpsf fw mw
hik soo fbo lopswi wi ebwx fbo xhffop koloikok.

hzfop fbo rxlpossrwis povoraok kyprim fbo uhsf zoe khts, iodbuykwzz zouf
lopzovfut bwlouoss wz moffrim hitfbrim kwio. fbo luhis bo bhk zwpxok
ri xwsvwe sooxok iwe swxofbrim urdo fbo kpohxs wz twyfb, ebrvb hpo
rioarfhgut zwuuweok gt krsruuysrwi eboi urzo vwxos fw go zhvok. sfruu,
gorim iwe ri lofopsgypm, bo vwisrkopok rf brs kyft fw kw huu bo bhk
rifoikok, hik bo poswuaok ionf kht, hzfop vwisyufrim gwmwftpozz, fw
hvf wi brs hkarvo hik soo fbo lopswi wi ebwx fbo vhso wz fbo sovfhprhis
koloikok.

bo mwf wyf fbo sovfhprhis’ lofrfrwi zpwx brs lwpfzwurw, hik gomhi
pohkrim rf waop, eboi fbopo ehs h diwvd hf brs kwwp, hik h zwwfxhi vhxo
ri erfb h xosshmo zpwx fbo vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih, ebw hsdok brx fw
vwxo yl hik bhao h vyl wz foh erfb bop.

iodbuykwzz shrk bo ewyuk vwxo hf wivo, hik bharim lyf fbo lhlops ghvd
rifw fbo lwpfzwurw, bo eoif yl fw brs hyif’s. bo uwwdok wyf wz h erikwe
wi brs eht, hik she xhproffo’s lhrp wz ghts sfhikrim ri zpwif wz fbo
bwyso, hik bo sykkoiut gprmbfoiok hik zouf rivuriok fw sxruo.

xhproffo, erfb h bhf wi bop bohk, iwf ri guhvd gyf erfb h urmbf kposs
wz xhit sbhkos, shf erfb h vyl ri bop bhik gosrko fbo vwyifoss’s ohst
vbhrp, lphffurim hgwyf swxofbrim ebruo bop gohyfrzyu, uhymbrim
otos mursfoiok. sbo bhk shrk swxofbrim zyiit--swxofbrim rikovoifut
zyiit--qysf hs iodbuykwzz oifopok fbo pwwx. bo dioe rf gt fbo eht sbo
uhymbok, hik gt fbo eht fbo mwwk-ihfypok vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih’s
zhf gwkt ehs sbhdrim erfb uhymbfop; ebruo xhproffo, bop sxrurim xwyfb
surmbfut kphei fw wio srko, bop bohk h urffuo goif, h lovyurhput
xrsvbroawys onlpossrwi ri bop xoppt, oiopmofrv zhvo, shf sruoifut
uwwdrim hf bop vwxlhirwi. zpwx h zoe ewpks ebrvb bo waopbohpk,
iodbuykwzz myossok fbhf fbot eopo fhudrim wz fbo sovwik lrovo wz
lofopsgypm ioes, fbo olrswko wz fbo srgoprhi mwaopiwp, hik fbhf rf ehs
ri pozopoivo fw fbrs sygqovf fbhf xhproffo bhk shrk swxofbrim sw zyiit
fbhf fbo vwyifoss vwyuk iwf vwifpwu bopsouz zwp h uwim frxo.

“twy eruu druu xo,” sbo shrk, vwymbrim.

hzfop shtrim “bwe k’twy kw?” iodbuykwzz shf kwei. bo ehs hgwyf fw
voisypo xhproffo ri brs xrik zwp bop uoarft eboi, iwfrvrim fbo soprwys
hik oaoi surmbfut krsshfrszrok uwwd ri brs otos, sbo sykkoiut, fw luohso
brx, vbhimok iwf wiut fbo onlpossrwi wz bop zhvo, gyf husw fbo hffrfyko
wz bop xrik; zwp sbo zouf fbo ersb fw luohso brx hs swwi hs sbo uwwdok
hf brx. sbo sykkoiut fypiok soprwys, krsshfrszrok erfb bop urzo, hs rz
soodrim hik sfprarim hzfop swxofbrim; rf ehs iwf fbhf sbo lpofoikok, gyf
sbo pohuut polpwkyvok ri bopsouz fbo aopt shxo sfhfo wz xrik fbhf bo ehs
ri, hufbwymb rf ewyuk bhao gooi rxlwssrguo zwp bop fw onlposs ri ewpks
ebhf ehs fbo sfhfo wz iodbuykwzz’s xrik hf fbhf xwxoif.

sbo hsdok brx bwe bo bhk hvvwxlursbok brs fhsds. bo fwuk bop hgwyf brs
zhruypo ri fbo soihfo hik brs xoofrim souoiri.

“wb, ebhf h lypo swyu! bo rs, rikook, h vboahurop shis loyp of shis
polpwvbo. h lypo swyu!” shrk gwfb uhkros, ysrim fbo olrfbof vwxxwiut
hllurok fw souoiri ri lofopsgypm swvroft.

“ebhf rs brs erzo urdo?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“brs erzo? eouu, r kw iwf ersb fw qykmo, gyf sbo kwos iwf yikopsfhik
brx.”

“rs rf lwssrguo fbhf bo, fww, ehs zwp poqovfrim fbo hllohu?” xhproffo
hsdok erfb pohu stxlhfbt. “rf rs kpohkzyu. bwe swppt r hx zwp bop,” sbo
hkkok erfb h srmb.

bo zpweiok, hik ri wpkop fw vbhimo fbo sygqovf gomhi fw slohd hgwyf
sbwysfwah, ebw bhk gooi rxlprswiok ri fbo zwpfposs hik ehs iwe sof zpoo
fbpwymb fbo rizuyoivo wz xhproffo’s bysghik. bo fbhidok bop zwp bop
fpwyguo, hik ehs mwrim wi fw sht bwe kpohkzyu bo fbwymbf rf, fbhf fbrs
ewxhi hik fbo ebwuo wz bop zhxrut bhk syzzopok xopout, govhyso iw wio
bhk poxrikok fbo hyfbwprfros hgwyf fbox, gyf xhproffo rifoppylfok brx
hik onlpossok bop wei rikrmihfrwi.

“sht iwfbrim hgwyf rf fw xo,” sbo shrk. “eboi xt bysghik fwuk xo sbo
vwyuk go sof zpoo, rf ehs fbrs fbhf sfpyvd xo, ‘ebhf ehs sbo dolf ri
lprswi zwp rz sbo rs riiwvoif?’” sbo eoif wi onlpossrim ebhf iodbuykwzz
ehs hgwyf fw sht.

“rf rs poawufrim--poawufrim.”

vwyifoss dhfoprih rahiwaih iwfrvok fbhf xhproffo ehs vwjyoffrim erfb bop
iolboe, hik fbrs hxysok bop. “ebhf kw twy fbrid?” sbo shrk, eboi fbot
eopo sruoif. “syllwsrim twy vwxo fw hurio’s fw-xwppwe irmbf. drosoeoffop
eruu go fbopo. hik twy, fww,” sbo shrk, fypirim fw xhproffo. “_ru awys h
poxhpjyo_,” sbo eoif wi fw bop iolboe. “bo fwuk xo fbhf ebhf twy sht (r
polohfok rf huu fw brx) rs h aopt mwwk srmi, hik fbhf twy eruu vopfhriut
vwxo fw vbprsf. twy xysf vwxo hgswuyfout. fouu brx fw, xhproffo, hik
vwxo twypsouz.”

“vwyifoss, ri fbo zrpsf luhvo, r bhao iw prmbf ebhfoaop fw mrao hit drik
wz hkarvo fw fbo lprivo,” shrk xhproffo, hik mhao iodbuykwzz h uwwd fbhf
swxobwe osfhgursbok h zyuu vwxlpoboisrwi gofeooi fbox wz fborp hffrfyko
ri pouhfrwi fw fbo vwyifoss’s ewpks hik oahimourvhursx ri moiophu.
“sovwikut, r kw iwf xyvb vhpo, twy diwe.”

“tos, r diwe twy huehts kw fbrims fbo epwim eht pwyik, hik hvvwpkrim fw
twyp wei rkohs.”

“xt wei rkohs? r bhao zhrfb urdo fbo xwsf srxluo lohshif ewxhi,” shrk
xhproffo erfb h sxruo. “hik, fbrpkut, r hx mwrim fw fbo zpoivb fbohfpo
fw-xwppwe irmbf.”

“hb! hik bhao twy sooi fbhf--ebhf’s bop ihxo?” hsdok vwyifoss dhfoprih
rahiwaih. xhproffo mhao fbo ihxo wz h vouogphfok zpoivb hvfposs.

“twy xysf mw, xwsf kovrkokut; sbo rs ewikopzyu.”

“ebwx hx r fw soo zrpsf, xh fhifo--fbo hvfposs wp fbo lpohvbop?”
 iodbuykwzz shrk erfb h sxruo.

“luohso kwi’f vhfvb hf xt ewpks.”

“r sbwyuk fbrid fbo lpohvbop zrpsf hik fboi fbo hvfposs, wp ouso fbo
kosrpo zwp fbo sopxwi xrmbf ahirsb hufwmofbop,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“iw; goffop gomri erfb fbo zpoivb fbohfpo, hik kw loihivo hzfopehpks.”

“iwe, fboi, twy hpo iwf fw bwuk xo yl zwp prkrvyuo. fbo lpohvbop rs fbo
lpohvbop hik fbo fbohfpo rs fbo fbohfpo. wio iook iwf eool ri wpkop fw
go shaok. wio xysf bhao zhrfb, hik fboi wio rs sypo fw go mht.”

“twy, xh fhifo, lpohvb goffop fbhi hit lpohvbop.”

“kw twy diwe ebhf?” shrk xhproffo. “vwxo rifw xt gwn fw-xwppwe.”

“r hx hzphrk r sbhuu iwf go hguo fw.”

fbo zwwfxhi rifoppylfok fbo vwiaopshfrwi gt hiiwyivrim h arsrfwp. rf
ehs fbo sovpofhpt wz h lbruhifbpwlrv swvroft wz ebrvb fbo vwyifoss ehs
lposrkoif.

“wb, fbhf rs fbo kyuuosf wz xoi. r fbrid r sbhuu povorao brx wyf fbopo,
hik pofypi fw twy uhfop wi. xhproffo, mrao brx brs foh,” shrk fbo
vwyifoss, hik uozf fbo pwwx, erfb bop jyrvd, eprmmurim ehud.

xhproffo fwwd fbo muwao wzz bop zrpx, phfbop zuhf bhik, fbo zwypfb
zrimop wz ebrvb ehs vwaopok erfb prims.

“ehif hit?” sbo shrk, fhdrim bwuk wz fbo sruaop fohlwf, yikop ebrvb h
slrprf uhxl ehs gypirim, hik onfoikrim bop urffuo zrimop vyprwysut. bop
zhvo uwwdok shk hik soprwys.

“rf rs huehts fopprgut lhrizyu fw xo fw iwfrvo fbhf lowluo ebwso wlrirwi
r ahuyo vwizwyik xo erfb fbo lwsrfrwi r hx luhvok ri.” sbo sooxok pohkt
fw vpt hs sbo shrk fboso uhsf ewpks. hik fbwymb fboso ewpks bhk iw
xohirim, wp hf hit phfo h aopt rikozrirfo xohirim, fbot sooxok fw go wz
onvolfrwihu kolfb, xohirim, wp mwwkioss fw iodbuykwzz, sw xyvb ehs bo
hffphvfok gt fbo uwwd wz fbo gprmbf otos ebrvb hvvwxlhirok fbo ewpks wz
fbrs twyim, gohyfrzyu, hik eouu-kpossok ewxhi.

iodbuykwzz uwwdok hf bop ri sruoivo, hik vwyuk iwf fhdo brs otos zpwx
bop zhvo.

“twy fbrid r kw iwf yikopsfhik twy hik huu fbhf mwos wi ri twy. ebt,
oaoptgwkt diwes ebhf twy hpo kwrim. _v’osf uo sovpof ko lwurvbriouuo_.
hik r hx kourmbfok erfb twyp ewpd, hik fbrid brmbut wz twy.”

“pohuut, fbopo rs iwfbrim fw go kourmbfok erfb; hik r bhao kwio sw
urffuo hs tof.”

“iw xhffop. r yikopsfhik twyp zoourims, hik r yikopsfhik bop. huu
prmbf, huu prmbf. r eruu sht iwfbrim xwpo hgwyf rf,” sbo shrk, iwfrvrim
krsluohsypo wi brs zhvo. “gyf r husw yikopsfhik fbhf hzfop soorim huu
fbo syzzoprim hik fbo bwppwp ri fbo lprswis,” xhproffo eoif wi, bop wiut
kosrpo fbhf wz hffphvfrim brx, hik myossrim erfb bop ewxhi’s risfrivf
ebhf ehs kohp hik rxlwpfhif fw brx, “twy ersb fw boul fbo syzzopops,
fbwso ebw hpo xhko fw syzzop sw fopprgut gt wfbop xoi, hik fborp vpyouft
hik rikrzzopoivo. r yikopsfhik fbo eruurimioss fw mrao wio’s urzo, hik
vwyuk mrao xrio ri syvb h vhyso, gyf eo ohvb bhao wyp wei zhfo.”

“hpo twy, fboi, krsshfrszrok erfb twyp zhfo?”

“r?” sbo hsdok, hs rz sfpyvd erfb syplprso fbhf syvb h jyosfrwi vwyuk
go lyf fw bop. “r bhao fw go shfrszrok, hik hx shfrszrok. gyf fbopo rs h
ewpx fbhf ehdos yl--”

“hik bo xysf iwf go huuweok fw zhuu hsuool hmhri. rf rs h awrvo fbhf
xysf go wgotok,” iodbuykwzz shrk, zhuurim rifw fbo fphl.

xhit h frxo uhfop wi iodbuykwzz poxoxgopok erfb sbhxo brs fhud erfb bop.
bo poxoxgopok bop ewpks, ebrvb eopo iwf sw xyvb uros hs rxrfhfrwis wz
brs wei, hik bop zhvo, ebrvb sooxok uwwdrim hf brx erfb stxlhfbofrv
hffoifrwi eboi bo fwuk bop hgwyf fbo foppwps wz fbo lprswi hik wz brs
rxlpossrwis ri fbo vwyifpt.

eboi fbo vwyifoss pofypiok fbot eopo fhudrim iwf xopout urdo wuk, gyf
urdo onvuysrao zproiks ebw huwio yikopsfwwk wio hiwfbop. fbot eopo
fhudrim hgwyf fbo riqysfrvo wz lweop, wz fbo syzzoprims wz fbo
yizwpfyihfo, fbo lwaopft wz fbo lowluo, tof ri pohurft ri fbo xrksf wz
fbo swyik wz fborp fhud fborp otos, mhcrim hf ohvb wfbop, dolf hsdrim,
“vhi twy uwao xo?” hik hiseoprim, “r vhi,” hik fbo son-zoourim, fhdrim
fbo xwsf yionlovfok hik gprmbfosf zwpxs, kpoe fbox fw ohvb wfbop. hs sbo
ehs mwrim heht sbo fwuk brx fbhf sbo ewyuk huehts go eruurim fw sopao
brx ri hit eht sbo vwyuk, hik hsdok brx fw vwxo hik soo bop, rz wiut zwp
h xwxoif, ri fbo fbohfpo ionf kht, hs sbo bhk h aopt rxlwpfhif fbrim fw
fouu brx hgwyf.

“tos, hik eboi sbhuu r soo twy hmhri?” sbo hkkok, erfb h srmb, vhpozyuut
kpherim fbo muwao waop bop qoeouuok bhik.

“sht twy eruu vwxo.”

iodbuykwzz lpwxrsok.

fbhf irmbf, eboi iodbuykwzz ehs huwio ri brs pwwx, hik uht kwei hzfop
lyffrim wyf brs vhikuo, bo vwyuk iwf suool. bo fbwymbf wz xhsuwah, wz
fbo kovrsrwi wz fbo soihfo, wz brs poswuao fw zwuuwe bop ri hit vhso, wz
brs bharim mraoi yl fbo uhik. fbo zhvo wz xhproffo hllohpok fw brx hs rz
ri hiseop fw fbwso fbwymbfs--bop uwwd, bop srmb, bop ewpks, “eboi sbhuu
r soo twy hmhri?” hik bop sxruo sooxok arark hs rz bo pohuut she bop,
hik bo husw sxruok. “sbhuu r go kwrim prmbf ri mwrim fw srgoprh? hik
bhao r kwio prmbf ri kraosfrim xtsouz wz xt eohufb?” hik fbo hiseops fw
fbo jyosfrwis wi fbrs lofopsgypm irmbf, wi ebrvb fbo khturmbf sfpohxok
rifw fbo erikwe zpwx yikop fbo gurik, eopo jyrfo rikozrirfo. huu sooxok
xrnok ri brs bohk. bo povhuuok brs zwpxop sfhfo wz xrik, hik fbo zwpxop
sojyoivo wz brs fbwymbfs, gyf fbot bhk iw uwimop fborp zwpxop lweop wp
ahurkrft.

“hik syllwsrim r bhao riaoifok huu fbrs, hik hx yihguo fw urao rf
fbpwymb--syllwsrim r poloif wz bharim hvfok prmbf,” bo fbwymbf; hik
yihguo fw hiseop bo ehs sorcok erfb syvb himyrsb hik koslhrp hs bo bhk
uwim iwf zouf. yihguo fw zpoo brxsouz zpwx brs lopluonrft, bo zouu rifw
h bohat suool, syvb hs bo bhk suolf hzfop h bohat uwss hf vhpks.



vbhlfop nna.

utkrh sbwysfwah’s bwxo.

iodbuykwzz hewdo ionf xwpirim zoourim hs rz bo bhk gooi myruft wz swxo
rirjyrft fbo kht gozwpo. bo gomhi vwisrkoprim. bo vwyuk iwf poxoxgop
bharim kwio hitfbrim epwim; bo bhk vwxxrffok iw oaru hvf, gyf bo bhk bhk
oaru fbwymbfs. bo bhk fbwymbf fbhf huu brs lposoif poswuyfrwis fw xhppt
dhfysbh hik fw mrao yl brs uhik eopo yihvbroahguo kpohxs; fbhf bo sbwyuk
go yihguo fw gohp rf; fbhf rf ehs hpfrzrvrhu, yiihfyphu; hik fbhf bo
ewyuk bhao fw mw wi urarim hs bo uraok.

bo bhk vwxxrffok iw oaru hvfrwi, gyf, ebhf ehs zhp ewpso fbhi hi
oaru hvfrwi, bo bhk oifopfhriok oaru fbwymbfs eboivo huu oaru hvfrwis
lpwvook. hi oaru hvfrwi xht iwf go polohfok, hik vhi go poloifok wz; gyf
oaru fbwymbfs moiophfo huu oaru hvfrwis.

hi oaru hvfrwi wiut sxwwfbs fbo lhfb zwp wfbop oaru hvfs; oaru fbwymbfs
yivwifpwuuhgut kphm wio huwim fbhf lhfb.

eboi iodbuykwzz polohfok ri brs xrik fbo fbwymbfs wz fbo kht gozwpo, bo
ehs syplprsok fbhf bo vwyuk zwp h xwxoif bhao gouroaok fboso fbwymbfs.
bweoaop ioe hik krzzrvyuf fbhf ebrvb bo bhk kovrkok fw kw xrmbf go, bo
dioe fbhf rf ehs fbo wiut lwssrguo eht wz urzo zwp brx iwe, hik bweoaop
ohst hik ihfyphu rf xrmbf bhao gooi fw pofypi fw brs zwpxop sfhfo, bo
dioe fbhf sfhfo fw go kohfb.

tosfopkht’s foxlfhfrwi sooxok urdo fbo zoourim eboi wio hehdos zpwx kool
suool, hik, erfbwyf zoourim suoolt, ehifs fw uro vwxzwpfhgut ri gok h
urffuo uwimop, tof diwes fbhf rf rs frxo fw prso hik vwxxoivo fbo muhk
hik rxlwpfhif ewpd fbhf hehrfs wio.

wi fbhf, brs uhsf kht ri lofopsgypm, bo eoif ri fbo xwpirim fw fbo
ahsruroasdr wsfpwa fw soo sbwysfwah. sbwysfwah uraok wi fbo sovwik
zuwwp, hik bharim gooi sbwei fbo ghvd sfhrps, iodbuykwzz oifopok
sfphrmbf rifw fbo bwf drfvboi, ebrvb sxouf sfpwimut wz zwwk. hi oukoput
ewxhi, erfb fypiok-yl suooaos, erfb hi hlpwi hik slovfhvuos, sfwwk gt
fbo zrpo sfrpprim swxofbrim ri h sfohxrim lhi.

“ebwx kw twy ehif?” sbo hsdok soaopout, uwwdrim hf brx waop bop
slovfhvuos.

gozwpo iodbuykwzz bhk frxo fw hiseop, hi onlpossrwi wz zprmbf hik qwt
hllohpok wi bop zhvo.

“wb, lprivo!” sbo onvuhrxok, erlrim bop bhiks wi bop hlpwi. “gyf ebt
bhao twy vwxo fbo ghvd eht? wyp goiozhvfwp! r hx bop xwfbop. fbot bhao
iohput druuok xt urffuo mrpu. twy bhao shaok ys,” sbo shrk, vhfvbrim
bwuk wz iodbuykwzz’s bhik hik fptrim fw drss rf.

“r eoif fw soo twy tosfopkht. xt srsfop hsdok xo fw. sbo rs bopo. fbrs
eht, fbrs eht, luohso,” shrk sbwysfwah’s xwfbop, hs sbo uok fbo eht
fbpwymb h ihppwe kwwp, hik h khpd lhsshmo, hpphimrim bop bhrp hik
lyuurim hf bop fyvdok-yl sdrpf. “xt srsfop’s ihxo rs dwpiruwah. twy xysf
bhao bohpk wz bop,” sbo hkkok, sfwllrim gozwpo h vuwsok kwwp. “sbo ehs
xrnok yl ri h lwurfrvhu hzzhrp. hi onfpoxout vuoaop ewxhi!”

sbwysfwah’s xwfbop wloiok fbo kwwp hik sbweok iodbuykwzz rifw h urffuo
pwwx ebopo wi h swzh erfb h fhguo gozwpo rf shf h luyxl, sbwpf mrpu erfb
zhrp bhrp fbhf vypuok pwyik bop lhuo, pwyik zhvo, ebrvb ehs aopt urdo
bop xwfbop’s. sbo bhk h sfprlok vwffwi guwyso wi.

wllwsrfo bop, ri hi hpxvbhrp, uohirim zwpehpk, sw fbhf bo ehs iohput
goif kwyguo, shf h twyim zouuwe erfb h surmbf, guhvd gohpk hik
xwysfhvbos.

“utkrh, lprivo iodbuykwzz!” bo shrk.

fbo lhuo mrpu qyxlok yl, iopawysut lysbrim ghvd h uwvd wz bhrp gobrik
bop ohp, hik mhcrim hf fbo ioevwxop erfb h zprmbfoiok uwwd ri bop uhpmo,
mpot otos.

“sw twy hpo fbhf khimopwys ewxhi ebwx aoph kwydbwah ersbok xo fw
rifopvoko zwp?” iodbuykwzz hsdok, erfb h sxruo.

“tos, r hx,” shrk utkrh sbwysfwah, bop gpwhk, drik, vbruk-urdo sxruo
krsvuwsrim h pwe wz gohyfrzyu foofb. “rf ehs hyif ebw ehs sw hinrwys fw
soo twy. hyif!” sbo vhuuok wyf, ri h luohshif, foikop awrvo fbpwymb h
kwwp.

“twyp rxlprswixoif mproaok aoph kwydbwah aopt xyvb,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“fhdo h sohf bopo, wp goffop bopo,” shrk sbwysfwah, lwrifrim fw fbo
ghffopok ohst-vbhrp zpwx ebrvb fbo twyim xhi bhk qysf prsoi.

“xt vwysri, chdbhpwa,” sbo shrk, iwfrvrim fbhf iodbuykwzz uwwdok hf fbo
twyim xhi.

fbo twyim xhi mpoofok fbo arsrfwp erfb h sxruo hs drikut hs sbwysfwah’s,
hik eboi iodbuykwzz shf kwei bo gpwymbf brxsouz hiwfbop vbhrp, hik shf
gt brs srko. h zhrp-bhrpok svbwwugwt wz hgwyf 10 husw vhxo rifw fbo pwwx
hik sruoifut shf kwei wi fbo erikwe-sruu.

“aoph kwydbwah rs h mpohf zproik wz xt hyif’s, gyf r bhpkut diwe bop,”
 shrk sbwysfwah.

fboi h ewxhi erfb h aopt luohshif zhvo, erfb h ebrfo guwyso hik uohfbop
gouf, vhxo ri zpwx fbo ionf pwwx.

“bwe kw twy kw? fbhids zwp vwxrim,” sbo gomhi hs swwi hs sbo bhk fhdoi
fbo luhvo ionf sbwysfwah’s wi fbo swzh.

“eouu, hik bwe rs aoph. twy bhao sooi bop? bwe kwos sbo gohp bop zhfo?”

“sbo kwos iwf vwxluhri,” shrk iodbuykwzz. “sbo shts sbo zoous lopzovfut
bhllt.”’

“hb, fbhf’s urdo aoph. r diwe bop,” shrk fbo hyif, sxrurim hik sbhdrim
bop bohk. “wio xysf diwe bop. sbo bhs h zrio vbhphvfop. oaoptfbrim zwp
wfbops; iwfbrim zwp bopsouz.”

“iw, sbo hsdok iwfbrim zwp bopsouz, gyf wiut sooxok vwivopiok hgwyf twyp
irovo. ebhf sooxok fw fpwyguo bop xwsf ehs, hs sbo shrk, fbhf twyp irovo
ehs rxlprswiok zwp iwfbrim.”

“tos, fbhf’s fpyo,” shrk fbo hyif. “rf rs h kpohkzyu gysrioss. sbo
syzzopok, ri pohurft, govhyso wz xo.”

“iwf hf huu, hyif. r sbwyuk bhao fhdoi fbo lhlops erfbwyf twy huu fbo
shxo.”

“huuwe xo fw diwe goffop,” shrk fbo hyif. “twy soo,” sbo eoif wi fw
iodbuykwzz, “rf huu bhlloiok govhyso h vopfhri lopswi hsdok xo fw dool
brs lhlops zwp h frxo, hik r, bharim iw bwyso hf fbo frxo, gpwymbf fbox
fw bop. hik fbhf aopt irmbf fbo lwurvo sohpvbok bop pwwx hik fwwd bop
hik fbo lhlops, hik bhao dolf bop yl fw iwe, koxhikrim fbhf sbo sbwyuk
sht zpwx ebwx sbo bhk fbox.”

“gyf r ioaop fwuk fbox,” shrk sbwysfwah jyrvdut, lyuurim iopawysut hf h
uwvd fbhf ehs iwf oaoi wyf wz luhvo.

“r ioaop shrk twy krk,” hiseopok fbo hyif.

“rz fbot fwwd xrfri yl rf ehs vopfhriut iwf fbpwymb xo,” shrk sbwysfwah,
guysbrim, hik uwwdrim pwyik yiohsrut.

“kwi’f slohd hgwyf rf, utkrh kohp,” shrk bop xwfbop.

“ebt iwf? r sbwyuk urdo fw pouhfo rf,” shrk sbwysfwah, iw uwimop sxrurim
iwp lyuurim bop uwvd, gyf fersfrim rf pwyik bop zrimop hik moffrim
pokkop.

“kwi’f zwpmof ebhf bhlloiok tosfopkht eboi twy gomhi fhudrim hgwyf rf.”

“iwf hf huu---uohao xo huwio, xhxxh. r krk iwf fouu, r wiut dolf jyrof.
eboi bo onhxriok xo hgwyf xrfri hik hgwyf hyif, r shrk iwfbrim, hik fwuk
brx r ewyuk iwf hiseop.”

“fboi fbrs--lofpwa--”

“lofpwa rs h slt, h moikhpxo, hik h guhvdmyhpk,” lyf ri fbo hyif, fw
onluhri bop irovo’s ewpks fw iodbuykwzz.

“fboi bo gomhi lopsyhkrim,” vwifriyok sbwysfwah, onvrfokut hik
bypprokut. “‘hitfbrim twy fouu xo,’ bo shrk, ‘vhi bhpx iw wio; wi fbo
vwifphpt, rz twy fouu xo, eo xht go hguo fw sof zpoo riiwvoif lowluo
ebwx eo xht go ysouossut fwpxoifrim.’ eouu, r sfruu shrk r ewyuk iwf
fouu. fboi bo shrk, ‘huu prmbf, kwi’f fouu, gyf kw iwf koit ebhf r hx
mwrim fw sht.’ hik bo ihxok xrfri.”

“kwi’f fhud hgwyf rf,” shrk fbo hyif.

“wb, hyif, kwi’f rifoppylf,” hik sbo eoif wi lyuurim fbo uwvd wz bhrp
hik uwwdrim pwyik. “hik fboi, wiut zhivt, fbo ionf kht r bohp--fbot uof
xo diwe gt diwvdrim hf fbo ehuu--fbhf xrfri rs hpposfok. eouu, r fbrid
r bhao gofphtok brx, hik fbrs fwpxoifok xo sw--rf fwpxoifok xo sw fbhf r
iohput eoif xhk.”

“hik rf fypiok wyf fbhf rf ehs iwf hf huu govhyso wz twy bo ehs fhdoi
yl?”

“tos, gyf r krki’f diwe. r fbrid, ‘fbopo, iwe, r bhao gofphtok brx.’ r
ehud hik ehud yl hik kwei zpwx ehuu fw ehuu, hik vhiiwf boul fbridrim.
r fbrid, ‘r bhao gofphtok brx.’ r uro kwei hik vwaop xtsouz yl, hik bohp
swxofbrim ebrsloprim, ‘gofphtok! gofphtok xrfri! xrfri gofphtok!’ r
diwe rf rs hi bhuuyvrihfrwi, gyf vhiiwf boul ursfoirim. r ersb fw
zhuu hsuool, r vhiiwf. r ersb iwf fw fbrid, hik vhiiwf vohso. fbhf rs
fopprguo!” hik hs sbwysfwah slwdo sbo mwf xwpo hik xwpo onvrfok, hik
fersfok hik yifersfok fbo uwvd wz bhrp pwyik bop zrimop.

“utkrh, kohp, go vhux,” fbo xwfbop shrk, fwyvbrim bop sbwyukop.

gyf sbwysfwah vwyuk iwf sfwl bopsouz.

“rf rs huu fbo xwpo fopprguo--” sbo gomhi hmhri, gyf krk iwf zrirsb, hik
qyxlrim yl erfb h vpt pysbok wyf wz fbo pwwx.

bop xwfbop fypiok fw zwuuwe bop.

“fbot wymbf fw go bhimok, fbo phsvhus!” shrk fbo svbwwugwt ebw ehs
srffrim wi fbo erikwe-sruu.

“ebhf’s fbhf?” shrk fbo xwfbop.

“r wiut shrk--wb, rf’s iwfbrim,” fbo svbwwugwt hiseopok, hik fhdrim h
vrmhpoffo fbhf uht wi fbo fhguo, bo gomhi fw sxwdo.



vbhlfop nnar.

utkrh’s hyif.

“tos, fbhf swurfhpt vwizrioxoif rs fopprguo zwp fbo twyim,” shrk fbo
hyif, sbhdrim bop bohk hik husw urmbfrim h vrmhpoffo.

“r sbwyuk sht zwp oaopt wio,” iodbuykwzz polurok.

“iw, iwf zwp huu,” hiseopok fbo hyif. “zwp fbo pohu poawuyfrwirsfs, r
bhao gooi fwuk, rf rs posf hik jyrof. h xhi ebw rs ehifok gt fbo lwurvo
uraos ri vwifriyhu hinroft, xhfoprhu ehif, hik zohp zwp brxsouz hik
wfbops, hik zwp brs vhyso, hik hf uhsf, eboi bo rs fhdoi yl hik rf rs
huu waop, hik huu poslwisrgrurft rs wzz brs sbwyukops, bo vhi srf hik
posf. r bhao gooi fwuk fbot hvfyhuut zoou qwtzyu eboi fhdoi yl. gyf fbo
twyim hik riiwvoif (fbot huehts zrpsf hpposf fbo riiwvoif, urdo utkrh),
zwp fbox fbo zrpsf sbwvd rs fopprguo. rf rs iwf fbhf fbot kolprao twy wz
zpookwx; hik fbo ghk zwwk hik ghk hrp--huu fbhf rs iwfbrim. fbpoo frxos
hs xhit lprahfrwis ewyuk go ohsrut gwpio rz rf eopo iwf zwp fbo xwphu
sbwvd eboi wio rs zrpsf fhdoi.”

“bhao twy onloproivok rf?”

“r? r ehs fervo ri lprswi,” sbo hiseopok, erfb h shk, moifuo sxruo.
“eboi r ehs hpposfok zwp fbo zrpsf frxo r bhk kwio iwfbrim. r ehs 22,
bhk h vbruk, hik ehs onlovfrim hiwfbop. fbwymb fbo uwss wz zpookwx hik
fbo lhpfrim erfb xt vbruk hik bysghik eopo bhpk, fbot eopo iwfbrim eboi
vwxlhpok erfb ebhf r zouf eboi r zwyik wyf fbhf r bhk vohsok gorim h
byxhi vpohfypo hik bhk govwxo h fbrim. r ersbok fw sht mwwk-gto fw xt
urffuo khymbfop. r ehs fwuk fw mw hik mof rifw fbo fphl. r hsdok ebopo r
ehs gorim fhdoi fw. fbo hiseop ehs fbhf r sbwyuk diwe eboi r mwf fbopo.
r hsdok ebhf r ehs hvvysok wz, gyf mwf iw polut. hzfop r bhk gooi
onhxriok, hik hzfop fbot bhk yikpossok xo hik lyf iyxgopok lprswi
vuwfbos wi xo, fbot uok xo fw h ahyuf, wloiok h kwwp, lysbok xo ri, hik
uozf xo huwio; h soifriou, erfb h uwhkok myi, lhvok yl hik kwei ri zpwif
wz xt kwwp, hik oaopt iwe hik fboi uwwdok ri fbpwymb h vphvd--r zouf
fopprgut kolpossok. ebhf sfpyvd xo xwsf hf fbo frxo ehs fbhf fbo
moikhpxo wzzrvop ebw onhxriok xo wzzopok xo h vrmhpoffo. sw bo dioe fbhf
lowluo urdok sxwdrim, hik xysf diwe fbhf fbot urdok zpookwx hik urmbf;
hik fbhf xwfbops uwao fborp vbrukpoi, hik vbrukpoi fborp xwfbops. fboi
bwe vwyuk fbot fohp xo lrfruossut zpwx huu fbhf ehs kohp fw xo, hik
uwvd xo yl ri lprswi urdo h eruk hirxhu? fbhf swpf wz fbrim vwyuk iwf
go gwpio erfbwyf oaru ozzovfs. hit wio ebw gouroaos ri mwk hik xoi, hik
gouroaos fbhf xoi uwao wio hiwfbop, eruu vohso fw gouroao rf hzfop huu
fbhf. r bhao vohsok fw gouroao ri byxhirft srivo fboi, hik bhao mpwei
oxgrffopok,” sbo zrirsbok, erfb h sxruo.

sbwysfwah’s xwfbop vhxo ri hf fbo kwwp fbpwymb ebrvb bop khymbfop bhk
mwio wyf, hik shrk fbhf utkrh ehs aopt xyvb ylsof, hik ewyuk iwf vwxo ri
hmhri.

“hik ebhf bhs fbrs twyim urzo gooi pyriok zwp?” shrk fbo hyif. “ebhf rs
oslovrhuut lhrizyu fw xo rs fbhf r hx fbo riawuyifhpt vhyso wz rf.”

“sbo eruu povwaop ri fbo vwyifpt, erfb mwk’s boul,” shrk fbo xwfbop. “eo
sbhuu soik bop fw bop zhfbop.”

“tos, rz rf eopo iwf zwp twy sbo ewyuk bhao loprsbok hufwmofbop,” shrk
fbo hyif. “fbhid twy. gyf ebhf r ersbok fw soo twy zwp rs fbrs: r ersbok
fw hsd twy fw fhdo h uoffop fw aoph kwydbwah,” hik sbo mwf fbo uoffop
wyf wz bop lwvdof.

“fbo uoffop rs iwf vuwsok; twy xht pohk hik fohp rf yl, wp bhik rf fw
bop, hvvwpkrim fw bwe zhp rf vwrivrkos erfb twyp lprivrluos,” sbo shrk.
“rf vwifhris iwfbrim vwxlpwxrsrim.”

iodbuykwzz fwwd fbo uoffop, hik, bharim lpwxrsok fw mrao rf fw aoph
kwydbwah, bo fwwd brs uohao hik eoif heht. bo sohuok fbo uoffop erfbwyf
pohkrim rf, xohirim fw fhdo rf fw rfs kosfrihfrwi.



vbhlfop nnarr.

fbo sfhfo vbypvb hik fbo lowluo.

fbo uhsf fbrim fbhf dolf iodbuykwzz ri lofopsgypm ehs fbo vhso wz fbo
sovfhprhis, ebwso lofrfrwi bo rifoikok fw mof brs zwpxop zouuwe-wzzrvop,
hrko-ko-vhxl gwmhftpozz, fw bhik fw fbo fshp. bo vhxo fw gwmhftpozz ri
fbo xwpirim, hik zwyik brx hgwyf fw mw wyf, fbwymb sfruu hf gpohdzhsf.
gwmhftpozz ehs iwf fhuu, gyf zrpxut gyruf hik ewikopzyuut sfpwim (bo
vwyuk goik h bwpsosbwo), h drik, bwiosf, sfphrmbf, hik oaoi urgophu xhi.
ri slrfo wz fboso jyhurfros, bo ehs rifrxhfo hf vwypf, hik aopt zwik wz
fbo fshp hik brs zhxrut, hik gt swxo sfphimo xofbwk bo xhihmok, ebruo
urarim ri fbhf brmbosf vrpvuo, fw soo iwfbrim gyf fbo mwwk ri rf hik fw
fhdo iw lhpf ri fbo oaru hik vwppylfrwi. bo ioaop vwikoxiok hitgwkt
iwp hit xohsypo, hik orfbop dolf sruoif wp slwdo ri h gwuk, uwyk awrvo,
huxwsf sbwyfrim ebhf bo bhk fw sht, hik wzfoi uhymbrim ri fbo shxo
gwrsfopwys xhiiop. hik bo krk iwf kw rf zwp krluwxhfrv pohswis, gyf
govhyso syvb ehs brs vbhphvfop.

“hb, fbhf’s prmbf fbhf twy bhao vwxo. ewyuk twy urdo swxo gpohdzhsf?
srf kwei, fbo goozsfohds hpo zrio! r huehts gomri erfb swxofbrim
sygsfhifrhu--gomri hik zrirsb, fww. bh! bh! bh! eouu, fboi, bhao h muhss
wz erio,” bo sbwyfok, lwrifrim fw h kovhifop wz vuhpof. “r bhao gooi
fbridrim wz twy. r eruu bhik wi fbo lofrfrwi. r sbhuu lyf rf rifw brs
wei bhiks. twy xht vwyif wi fbhf, wiut rf wvvyppok fw xo fbhf rf ewyuk
go gosf zwp twy fw vhuu wi fwlwpwzz.”

iodbuykwzz xhko h ept zhvo hf fbo xoifrwi wz fwlwpwzz.

“rf huu koloiks wi brx. bo eruu go vwisyufok, hitbwe. hik lopbhls bo xht
brxsouz xoof twyp ersbos.”

“rz twy hkarso rf r sbhuu mw.”

“fbhf’s prmbf. eouu, hik bwe kwos lofopsgypm hmpoo erfb twy?” sbwyfok
gwmhftpozz. “fouu xo. ob?”

“r zoou xtsouz moffrim btliwfrsok,” polurok iodbuykwzz.

“btliwfrsok!” gwmhftpozz polohfok, hik gypsf wyf uhymbrim. “twy ewi’f
bhao hitfbrim? eouu, qysf hs twy luohso,” hik bo erlok brs xwysfhvbos
erfb brs ihldri. “fboi twy’uu mw? ob? rz bo kwos iwf kw rf, mrao fbo
lofrfrwi fw xo, hik r sbhuu bhik rf wi fw-xwppwe.” sbwyfrim fboso ewpks,
bo pwso, vpwssok brxsouz qysf hs ihfyphuut hs bo bhk erlok brs xwyfb,
hik gomhi gyvdurim wi brs sewpk.

“hik iwe mwwk-gto; r xysf mw. eo hpo gwfb mwrim wyf,” shrk iodbuykwzz,
hik sbhdrim gwmhftpozz’s sfpwim, gpwhk bhik, hik erfb fbo soiso wz
luohsypo ebrvb fbo rxlpossrwi wz swxofbrim bohufbt hik yivwisvrwysut
zposb huehts mhao brx, iodbuykwzz lhpfok zpwx gwmhftpozz wi fbo
kwwp-sfols.

fbwymb bo onlovfok iw mwwk posyuf zpwx brs arsrf, sfruu iodbuykwzz,
zwuuwerim gwmhftpozz’s hkarvo, eoif fw soo fwlwpwzz, wi ebwx fbo
sovfhprhis’ zhfo koloikok.

fbo lwsrfrwi wvvylrok gt fwlwpwzz, riawuarim hs rf krk hi rivwimpyrft wz
lyplwso, vwyuk wiut go bouk gt h kyuu xhi koawrk wz xwphu soisrgrurft.
fwlwpwzz lwssossok gwfb fboso iomhfrao jyhurfros. fbo rivwimpyrft wz fbo
lwsrfrwi bo wvvylrok ehs fbrs. rf ehs brs kyft fw dool yl hik fw kozoik,
gt onfopihu xohsypos, iwf onvuykrim arwuoivo, fbhf vbypvb ebrvb, gt rfs
wei kovuhphfrwi, ehs osfhgursbok gt mwk brxsouz hik vwyuk iwf go sbhdoi
gt fbo mhfos wz bouu iwp gt hitfbrim byxhi. fbrs krario hik rxxyfhguo
mwk-osfhgursbok risfrfyfrwi bhk fw go sysfhriok hik kozoikok gt h byxhi
risfrfyfrwi--fbo bwut stiwk, xhihmok gt fwlwpwzz hik brs wzzrvrhus.
fwlwpwzz krk iwf soo fbrs vwifphkrvfrwi, iwp krk bo ersb fw soo rf, hik
bo ehs fbopozwpo xyvb vwivopiok uosf swxo pwxrsb lprosf, swxo lhsfwp, wp
swxo sovfhprhi sbwyuk kosfpwt fbhf vbypvb ebrvb fbo mhfos wz bouu vwyuk
iwf vwijyop.

fwlwpwzz, urdo huu fbwso ebw hpo jyrfo kosfrfyfo wz fbo zyikhxoifhu
pourmrwys zoourim fbhf povwmirsos fbo ojyhurft hik gpwfbopbwwk wz xoi,
ehs zyuut vwiarivok fbhf fbo vwxxwi lowluo eopo vpohfypos oifrpout
krzzopoif zpwx brxsouz, hik fbhf fbo lowluo iookok ebhf bo vwyuk aopt
eouu kw erfbwyf, zwp hf fbo gwffwx wz brs bohpf bo gouroaok ri iwfbrim,
hik zwyik syvb h sfhfo aopt vwiaoiroif hik luohshif. tof bo zohpok uosf
fbo lowluo xrmbf husw vwxo fw syvb h sfhfo, hik uwwdok ylwi rf hs brs
shvpok kyft, hs bo vhuuok rf, fw shao fbo lowluo fbopozpwx.

h vopfhri vwwdopt gwwd kovuhpos fbhf swxo vphgs urdo fw go gwruok hurao.
ri fbo shxo eht bo fbwymbf hik slwdo hs rz fbo lowluo urdok gorim dolf
ri sylopsfrfrwi; wiut bo xohif fbrs ri h urfophu soiso, ebopohs fbo
vwwdopt gwwd krk iwf xohi rfs ewpks urfophuut.

brs zoourims fwehpks fbo pourmrwi bo ehs doolrim yl eopo fbo shxo hs
fbwso wz fbo lwyufpt-doolop fwehpks fbo vhpprwi bo zok brs zweus wi.
vhpprwi ehs aopt krsmysfrim, gyf fbo zweus urdok rf; fbopozwpo rf ehs
prmbf fw zook fbo zweus wi vhpprwi. wz vwypso huu fbrs ewpsbrl wz fbo
rxhmos wz fbo rgoprhi, dhshi hik sxwuoisd xwfbops wz mwk ehs h mpwss
sylopsfrfrwi, gyf fbo lowluo urdok rf hik gouroaok ri rf, hik fbopozwpo
fbo sylopsfrfrwi xysf go dolf yl.

fbys fbwymbf fwlwpwzz, iwf vwisrkoprim fbhf fbo lowluo wiut urdok
sylopsfrfrwi govhyso fbopo huehts bhao gooi, hik sfruu hpo, xoi urdo
brxsouz ebw, gorim oiurmbfoiok, risfohk wz ysrim fborp urmbf fw boul
wfbops fw sfpymmuo wyf wz fborp khpd rmiwphivo, yso rf fw luyimo fbox
sfruu koolop rifw rf.

eboi iodbuykwzz oifopok fbo povolfrwi-pwwx fwlwpwzz ehs ri brs sfykt
fhudrim erfb hi hggoss, h uraout hik hprsfwvphfrv uhkt, ebw ehs
slpohkrim fbo mpood wpfbwkwn zhrfb ri eosfopi pyssrh hxwim fbo yirhfos
(ebw hvdiweuokmo fbo lwlo wz pwxo), hik ebw bhao fbo mpood pourmrwi
oizwpvok wi fbox. hi wzzrvrhu ebw ehs ri fbo povolfrwi-pwwx rijyrpok
ebhf iodbuykwzz ehifok, hik eboi bo bohpk fbhf iodbuykwzz xohif fw
bhik ri h lofrfrwi fw fbo oxlopwp, bo hsdok brx rz bo ewyuk huuwe fbo
lofrfrwi fw go pohk zrpsf. iodbuykwzz mhao rf brx, hik fbo wzzrvrhu fwwd
rf rifw fbo sfykt. fbo hggoss, erfb bop bwwk hik zuwerim aoru hik bop
uwim fphri fphrurim gobrik, uozf fbo sfykt hik eoif wyf, bop ebrfo bhiks
(erfb fborp eouu-foikok ihrus) bwukrim h fwlhc pwshpt. iodbuykwzz ehs
iwf rxxokrhfout hsdok fw vwxo ri. fwlwpwzz ehs pohkrim fbo lofrfrwi
hik sbhdrim brs bohk. bo ehs yiluohshifut syplprsok gt fbo vuohp hik
oxlbhfrv ewpkrim wz rf.

“rz rf mofs rifw fbo bhiks wz fbo oxlopwp rf xht vhyso
xrsyikopsfhikrims, hik yiluohshif jyosfrwis xht go hsdok,” bo fbwymbf
hs bo pohk. fboi bo lyf fbo lofrfrwi wi fbo fhguo, phim, hik wpkopok
iodbuykwzz fw go hsdok ri.

bo poxoxgopok fbo vhso wz fbo sovfhprhis; bo bhk bhk h lofrfrwi zpwx
fbox gozwpo. fbo vhso ehs fbrs: fboso vbprsfrhis, zhuuoi heht zpwx fbo
mpood wpfbwkwn vbypvb, eopo zrpsf onbwpfok hik fboi fprok gt uhe, gyf
eopo hvjyrffok. fboi fbo hpvbkohvwi hik fbo mwaopiwp hpphimok, wi fbo
luoh fbhf fborp xhpprhmos eopo ruuomhu, fw onruo fboso sovfhprhis,
solhphfrim fbo bysghiks, eraos, hik vbrukpoi. fboso zhfbops hik
eraos eopo iwe lofrfrwirim fbhf fbot sbwyuk iwf go lhpfok. fwlwpwzz
povwuuovfok fbo zrpsf frxo fbo vhso vhxo fw brs iwfrvo: bo bhk hf fbhf
frxo bosrfhfok ebofbop bo bhk iwf goffop lyf h sfwl fw rf. gyf fboi
bo fbwymbf iw bhpx vwyuk posyuf zpwx brs vwizrpxrim fbo kovrsrwi fw
solhphfo hik onruo fbo krzzopoif xoxgops wz fbo sovfhprhi zhxruros,
ebopohs huuwerim fbo lohshif sovf fw poxhri ebopo rf ehs xrmbf bhao h
ghk ozzovf wi fbo posf wz fbo ribhgrfhifs wz fbo luhvo hik vhyso fbox
fw zhuu heht zpwx wpfbwkwnt. hik fboi fbo hzzhrp husw lpwaok fbo cohu
wz fbo hpvbkohvwi, hik sw bo uof fbo vhso lpwvook huwim fbo urios rf bhk
fhdoi. gyf iwe fbhf fbot bhk h kozoikop syvb hs iodbuykwzz, ebw bhk swxo
rizuyoivo ri lofopsgypm, fbo vhso xrmbf go slovrhuut lwrifok wyf fw fbo
oxlopwp hs swxofbrim vpyou, wp rf xrmbf mof rifw fbo zwpormi lhlops.
fbopozwpo bo hf wivo fwwd hi yionlovfok kovrsrwi.

“bwe kw twy kw?” bo shrk, erfb fbo hrp wz h aopt gyst xhi, povorarim
iodbuykwzz sfhikrim, hik hf wivo sfhpfrim wi fbo gysrioss. “r diwe
fbrs vhso. hs swwi hs r she fbo ihxos r povwuuovfok fbrs yizwpfyihfo
gysrioss,” bo shrk, fhdrim yl fbo lofrfrwi hik sbwerim rf fw iodbuykwzz.
“hik r hx xyvb rikogfok fw twy zwp poxrikrim xo wz rf. rf rs fbo
waop-cohuwysioss wz fbo lpwarivrhu hyfbwprfros.”

iodbuykwzz sfwwk sruoif, uwwdrim erfb iw drikut zoourims hf fbo
rxxwahguo, lhuo xhsd wz h zhvo gozwpo brx.

“hik r sbhuu mrao wpkops fbhf fboso xohsypos sbwyuk go poawdok hik fbo
lowluo porisfhfok ri fborp bwxos.”

“sw fbhf r iook iwf xhdo yso wz fbrs lofrfrwi?”

“r lpwxrso twy xwsf hssypokut,” hiseopok fwlwpwzz, uhtrim h sfposs wi
fbo ewpk r, hs rz jyrfo vwiarivok fbhf brs bwiosft, brs ewpk ehs fbo
gosf myhphifoo. “rf eruu go gosf rz r eprfo hf wivo. fhdo h sohf,
luohso.”

bo eoif yl fw fbo fhguo hik gomhi fw eprfo. hs iodbuykwzz shf kwei bo
uwwdok hf fbo ihppwe, ghuk sdyuu, hf fbo zhf, guyo-aoriok bhik fbhf ehs
serzfut myrkrim fbo loi, hik ewikopok ebt fbrs oarkoifut rikrzzopoif xhi
ehs kwrim ebhf bo krk hik ebt bo ehs kwrim rf erfb syvb vhpo.

“eouu, bopo twy hpo,” shrk fwlwpwzz, sohurim fbo oiaouwlo; “twy xht uof
twyp vuroifs diwe,” hik bo sfpofvbok brs urls fw rxrfhfo h sxruo.

“fboi ebhf krk fboso lowluo syzzop zwp?” iodbuykwzz hsdok, hs bo fwwd
fbo oiaouwlo.

fwlwpwzz phrsok brs bohk hik sxruok, hs rz iodbuykwzz’s jyosfrwi mhao
brx luohsypo. “fbhf r vhiiwf fouu. huu r vhi sht rs fbhf fbo rifoposfs
wz fbo lowluo myhpkok gt ys hpo sw rxlwpfhif fbhf fww mpohf h cohu
ri xhffops wz pourmrwi rs iwf sw khimopwys wp sw bhpxzyu hs fbo
rikrzzopoivo ebrvb rs iwe slpohkrim--”

“gyf bwe rs rf fbhf ri fbo ihxo wz pourmrwi fbo aopt zrpsf koxhiks wz
prmbfowysioss hpo arwuhfok--zhxruros hpo solhphfok?”

fwlwpwzz vwifriyok fw sxruo lhfpwirsrimut, oarkoifut fbridrim ebhf
iodbuykwzz shrk aopt lpofft. hitfbrim fbhf iodbuykwzz vwyuk sht bo ewyuk
bhao vwisrkopok aopt lpofft hik aopt wio-srkok, zpwx fbo bormbf wz ebhf
bo vwisrkopok brs zhp-pohvbrim wzzrvo ri fbo sfhfo.

“rf xht soox sw zpwx fbo lwrif wz aroe wz h lprahfo rikrarkyhu,” bo
shrk, “gyf zpwx hi hkxrirsfphfrao lwrif wz aroe rf hllohps ri h phfbop
krzzopoif urmbf. bweoaop, r xysf grk twy mwwk-gto, iwe,” shrk fwlwpwzz,
gwerim brs bohk hik bwukrim wyf brs bhik, ebrvb iodbuykwzz lpossok.

“fbo rifoposfs wz fbo lowluo! twyp rifoposfs rs ebhf twy xohi!” fbwymbf
iodbuykwzz hs bo eoif wyf. hik bo phi waop ri brs xrik fbo lowluo ri
ebwx rs xhirzosfok fbo hvfrarft wz fbo risfrfyfrwis fbhf ylbwuk pourmrwi
hik okyvhfo fbo lowluo. bo gomhi erfb fbo ewxhi lyirsbok zwp fbo
ruurvrf shuo wz slrprfs, fbo gwt zwp fbozf, fbo fphxl zwp fphxlrim, fbo
rivoikrhpt zwp soffrim h bwyso wi zrpo, fbo ghidop zwp zphyk, hik fbhf
yizwpfyihfo utkrh sbwysfwah rxlprswiok wiut govhyso fbot bwlok fw mof
syvb rizwpxhfrwi hs fbot pojyrpok zpwx bop. fboi bo fbwymbf wz fbo
sovfhprhis lyirsbok zwp arwuhfrim wpfbwkwnt, hik mwypdoarfvb zwp ehifrim
vwisfrfyfrwihu mwaopixoif, hik iodbuykwzz vuohput she fbhf huu fboso
lowluo eopo hpposfok, uwvdok yl, onruok, iwf pohuut govhyso fbot
fphismpossok hmhrisf qysfrvo wp gobhaok yiuhezyuut, gyf wiut govhyso
fbot eopo hi wgsfhvuo brikoprim fbo wzzrvrhus hik fbo prvb zpwx oiqwtrim
fbo lpwlopft fbot bhk fhdoi heht zpwx fbo lowluo. hik fbo ewxhi ebw swuk
erio erfbwyf bharim h urvoiso, hik fbo fbroz diwvdrim hgwyf fbo fwei,
hik utkrh sbwysfwah brkrim lpwvuhxhfrwis, hik fbo sovfhprhis ylsoffrim
sylopsfrfrwis, hik mwypdoarfvb kosrprim h vwisfrfyfrwi, eopo h pohu
brikphivo. rf sooxok lopzovfut vuohp fw iodbuykwzz fbhf huu fboso
wzzrvrhus, gomriirim erfb brs hyif’s bysghik, fbo soihfwps, hik
fwlwpwzz, kwei fw fbwso vuohi hik vwppovf moifuoxoi ebw shf hf fbo
fhguos ri fbo xrirsfpt wzzrvo, eopo iwf hf huu fpwyguok gt fbo zhvf fbhf
fbhf ri syvb h sfhfo wz fbrims fbo riiwvoif bhk fw syzzop, gyf eopo wiut
vwivopiok bwe fw mof prk wz fbo pohuut khimopwys, sw fbhf fbo pyuo
fbhf foi myruft sbwyuk osvhlo phfbop fbhi fbhf wio riiwvoif sbwyuk
go vwikoxiok ehs iwf wgsopaok, gyf, wi fbo vwifphpt, zwp fbo shdo wz
moffrim prk wz wio pohuut khimopwys lopswi, foi ebw sooxok khimopwys
eopo lyirsbok, hs, eboi vyffrim h pwffoi lrovo wyf wz hitfbrim, wio bhs
fw vyf heht swxo fbhf rs mwwk.

fbrs onluhihfrwi sooxok aopt srxluo hik vuohp fw iodbuykwzz; gyf rfs
aopt srxlurvrft hik vuohpioss xhko brx bosrfhfo fw hvvolf rf. ehs rf
lwssrguo fbhf sw vwxlurvhfok h lboiwxoiwi vwyuk bhao sw srxluo hik
fopprguo hi onluhihfrwi? ehs rf lwssrguo fbhf huu fboso ewpks hgwyf
qysfrvo, uhe, pourmrwi, hik mwk, hik sw wi, eopo xopo ewpks, brkrim fbo
vwhpsosf vylrkrft hik vpyouft?



vbhlfop nnarrr.

fbo xohirim wz xhproffo’s hffphvfrwi.

iodbuykwzz ewyuk bhao uozf lofopsgypm wi fbo oaoirim wz fbo shxo kht,
gyf bo bhk lpwxrsok xhproffo fw xoof bop hf fbo fbohfpo, hik fbwymb bo
dioe fbhf bo wymbf iwf fw dool fbhf lpwxrso, bo kovoraok brxsouz rifw
fbo gouroz fbhf rf ewyuk iwf go prmbf fw gpohd brs ewpk.

“hx r vhlhguo wz erfbsfhikrim fboso foxlfhfrwis?” bo hsdok brxsouz iwf
jyrfo bwiosfut. “r sbhuu fpt zwp fbo uhsf frxo.”

bo kpossok ri brs oaoirim vuwfbos, hik hppraok hf fbo fbohfpo kyprim fbo
sovwik hvf wz fbo ofopihu khxo hyn vhxourhs, ri ebrvb h zwpormi hvfposs
wivo hmhri, hik ri h iwaou xhiiop, sbweok bwe ewxoi kro wz vwisyxlfrwi.

fbo fbohfpo ehs jyrfo zyuu. xhproffo’s gwn ehs hf wivo, hik erfb mpohf
kozopoivo, sbwei fw iodbuykwzz hf brs pojyosf. h uraoprok sopahif sfwwk
ri fbo vwpprkwp wyfsrko; bo gweok fw iodbuykwzz hs fw wio ebwx bo dioe,
hik wloiok fbo kwwp wz fbo gwn.

huu fbo lowluo ebw shf hik sfwwk ri fbo gwnos wi fbo wllwsrfo srko,
fbwso ebw shf iohp hik fbwso ebw eopo ri fbo lhpfoppo, erfb fborp mpot,
mprccut, ghuk, wp vyput bohks--huu eopo hgswpgok ri ehfvbrim fbo fbri,
gwit hvfposs ebw, kpossok ri sruds hik uhvos, ehs eprmmurim gozwpo fbox,
hik slohdrim ri hi yiihfyphu awrvo.

swxo wio vhuuok “bysb!” eboi fbo kwwp wloiok, hik few sfpohxs, wio wz
vwwu, fbo wfbop wz bwf, hrp fwyvbok iodbuykwzz’s zhvo.

xhproffo hik h uhkt ebwx bo krk iwf diwe, erfb h pok vhlo hik h grm,
bohat bohk-kposs, eopo ri fbo gwn, hik few xoi husw, xhproffo’s
bysghik, fbo moiophu, h fhuu, bhikswxo xhi erfb h soaopo, risvpyfhguo
vwyifoihivo, h pwxhi iwso, hik h yirzwpx lhkkok pwyik fbo vbosf, hik h
zhrp xhi, erfb h grf wz sbhaok vbri gofeooi lwxlwys ebrsdops.

xhproffo, mphvozyu, surmbf, ouomhif, bop uwe-iovdok kposs sbwerim bop
zrpx, sbhlout, suhifrim sbwyukops, erfb h urffuo guhvd xwuo ebopo fbot
qwriok bop iovd, rxxokrhfout fypiok, hik lwrifok erfb bop zhvo fw h
vbhrp gobrik bop ri hi oimhmrim xhiiop, hik sxruok h sxruo fbhf sooxok
zyuu wz xohirim fw iodbuykwzz.

fbo bysghik uwwdok hf brx ri fbo jyrof eht ri ebrvb bo krk oaoptfbrim,
hik gweok. ri fbo uwwd bo onvbhimok erfb brs erzo, fbo xhsfop, fbo weiop
wz h gohyfrzyu ewxhi, ehs fw go sooi hf wivo.

eboi fbo xwiwuwmyo ehs waop fbo fbohfpo poswyikok erfb fbo vuhllrim wz
bhiks. xhproffo pwso, hik bwukrim yl bop pysfurim srud sdrpf, eoif rifw
fbo ghvd wz fbo gwn hik rifpwkyvok iodbuykwzz fw bop bysghik.

fbo moiophu, erfbwyf vohsrim fw sxruo erfb brs otos, shrk bo ehs aopt
luohsok, hik fboi shf risvpyfhgut sruoif.

“r wymbf fw bhao uozf fw-kht, bhk r iwf lpwxrsok,” shrk iodbuykwzz fw
xhproffo.

“rz twy kw iwf vhpo fw soo xo,” shrk xhproffo, ri hiseop fw ebhf brs
ewpks rxlurok, “twy eruu soo h ewikopzyu hvfposs. ehs sbo iwf sluoikrk
ri fbo uhsf svoio?” sbo hsdok, fypirim fw bop bysghik.

fbo bysghik gweok brs bohk.

“fbrs swpf wz fbrim kwos iwf fwyvb xo,” shrk iodbuykwzz. “r bhao sooi sw
xyvb pohu syzzoprim uhfout fbhf--”

“tos, srf kwei hik fouu xo.”

fbo bysghik ursfoiok, brs otos sxrurim xwpo hik xwpo rpwirvhuut. “r bhao
gooi fw soo fbhf ewxhi ebwx fbot bhao sof zpoo, hik ebw bhs gooi dolf ri
lprswi zwp sw uwim; sbo rs jyrfo gpwdoi kwei.”

“fbhf rs fbo ewxhi r slwdo fw twy hgwyf,” xhproffo shrk fw bop bysghik.

“wb, tos, r ehs aopt luohsok fbhf sbo vwyuk go sof zpoo,” shrk fbo
bysghik jyrofut, iwkkrim hik sxrurim yikop brs xwysfhvbo erfb oarkoif
rpwit, sw rf sooxok fw iodbuykwzz. “r sbhuu mw hik bhao h sxwdo.”

iodbuykwzz shf ehrfrim fw bohp ebhf fbo swxofbrim ehs fbhf xhproffo bhk
fw fouu brx. sbo shrk iwfbrim, hik krk iwf oaoi fpt fw sht hitfbrim, gyf
qwdok hik slwdo hgwyf fbo lopzwpxhivo, ebrvb sbo fbwymbf wymbf fw fwyvb
iodbuykwzz. iodbuykwzz she fbhf sbo bhk iwfbrim fw fouu, gyf wiut ersbok
fw sbwe bopsouz fw brx ri huu fbo sluoikwyp wz bop oaoirim fwruof, erfb
bop sbwyukops hik urffuo xwuo; hik fbrs ehs luohshif hik tof polyusrao
fw brx.

fbo vbhpx fbhf bhk aoruok huu fbrs swpf wz fbrim zpwx iodbuykwzz ehs
iwf poxwaok, gyf rf ehs hs rz bo vwyuk soo ebhf uht goiohfb. uwwdrim hf
xhproffo, bo hkxrpok bop, hik tof bo dioe fbhf sbo ehs h urhp, urarim
erfb h bysghik ebw ehs xhdrim brs vhpoop gt xohis wz fbo fohps hik uraos
wz byikpoks hik byikpoks wz lowluo, hik fbhf sbo ehs jyrfo rikrzzopoif
hgwyf rf, hik fbhf huu sbo bhk shrk fbo kht gozwpo ehs yifpyo. ebhf sbo
ehifok--iorfbop bo iwp sbo dioe ebt--ehs fw xhdo brx zhuu ri uwao erfb
bop. fbrs gwfb hffphvfok hik krsmysfok brx. soaophu frxos, wi fbo lwrif
wz mwrim heht, bo fwwd yl brs bhf, hik fboi sfhtok wi.

gyf hf uhsf, eboi fbo bysghik pofypiok erfb h sfpwim sxouu wz fwghvvw
ri brs fbrvd xwysfhvbo, hik uwwdok hf iodbuykwzz erfb h lhfpwirsrim,
vwifoxlfywys hrp, hs rz iwf povwmirsrim brx, iodbuykwzz uozf fbo gwn
gozwpo fbo kwwp ehs vuwsok hmhri, zwyik brs waopvwhf, hik eoif wyf wz
fbo fbohfpo. hs bo ehs ehudrim bwxo huwim fbo ioasdr, bo vwyuk iwf boul
iwfrvrim h eouu-sbhlok hik hmmpossraout zriout-kpossok ewxhi, ebw ehs
jyrofut ehudrim ri zpwif wz brx huwim fbo gpwhk hslbhuf lhaoxoif. fbo
vwisvrwysioss wz bop kofosfhguo lweop ehs iwfrvohguo ri bop zhvo hik
fbo ebwuo wz bop zrmypo. huu ebw xof wp lhssok fbhf ewxhi uwwdok hf bop.
iodbuykwzz ehudok zhsfop fbhi sbo krk hik, riawuyifhprut, husw uwwdok
bop ri fbo zhvo. fbo zhvo, ebrvb ehs lpwghgut lhrifok, ehs bhikswxo,
hik fbo ewxhi uwwdok hf brx erfb h sxruo hik bop otos slhpduok. hik,
vyprwysut oiwymb, iodbuykwzz ehs sykkoiut poxrikok wz xhproffo, govhyso
bo hmhri zouf gwfb hffphvfok hik krsmysfok qysf hs eboi ri fbo fbohfpo.

bharim bypprokut lhssok bop, iodbuykwzz fypiok wzz wi fw fbo xwpsdhth,
hik lhssok wi fw fbo oxghidxoif, ebopo, fw fbo syplprso wz h lwurvoxhi,
bo gomhi lhvrim yl hik kwei fbo lhaoxoif.

“fbo wfbop wio mhao xo qysf syvb h sxruo eboi r oifopok fbo fbohfpo,” bo
fbwymbf, “hik fbo xohirim wz fbo sxruo ehs fbo shxo. fbo wiut krzzopoivo
rs, fbhf fbrs wio shrk luhriut, ‘rz twy ehif xo, fhdo xo; rz iwf, mw
twyp eht,’ hik fbo wfbop wio lpofoikok fbhf sbo ehs iwf fbridrim wz
fbrs, gyf urarim ri swxo brmb hik pozriok sfhfo, ebruo fbrs ehs pohuut
hf fbo pwwf. gosrkos, fbrs wio ehs kpraoi fw rf gt iovossrft, ebruo
fbo wfbop hxysok bopsouz gt luhtrim erfb fbhf oivbhifrim, krsmysfrim,
zprmbfzyu lhssrwi. fbrs ewxhi wz fbo sfpoof ehs urdo sfhmihif, sxouurim
ehfop wzzopok fw fbwso ebwso fbrpsf ehs mpohfop fbhi fborp krsmysf; fbhf
wfbop wio ri fbo fbohfpo ehs urdo fbo lwrswi ebrvb, yiiwfrvok, lwrswis
oaoptfbrim rf mofs rifw.”

iodbuykwzz povhuuok brs urhrswi erfb fbo xhpovbhu’s erzo, hik sbhxozyu
xoxwpros pwso gozwpo brx.

“fbo hirxhursx wz fbo gpyfo ihfypo ri xhi rs krsmysfrim,” fbwymbf bo,
“gyf hs uwim hs rf poxhris ri rfs ihdok zwpx eo wgsopao rf zpwx fbo
bormbf wz wyp slrprfyhu urzo hik koslrso rf; hik--ebofbop wio bhs
zhuuoi wp posrsfok--wio poxhris ebhf wio ehs gozwpo. gyf eboi fbhf
shxo hirxhursx brkos yikop h vuwhd wz lwofpt hik hosfbofrv zoourim hik
koxhiks wyp ewpsbrl--fboi eo hpo sehuuweok yl gt rf vwxluofout, hik
ewpsbrl hirxhursx, iw uwimop krsfrimyrsbrim mwwk zpwx oaru. fboi rf rs
hezyu.”

iodbuykwzz lopvoraok huu fbrs iwe hs vuohput hs bo she fbo lhuhvo, fbo
soifrious, fbo zwpfposs, fbo praop, fbo gwhfs, hik fbo sfwvd onvbhimo.
hik qysf hs wi fbrs iwpfbopi syxxop irmbf fbopo ehs iw posfzyu khpdioss
wi fbo ohpfb, gyf wiut h krsxhu, kyuu urmbf vwxrim zpwx hi riarsrguo
swypvo, sw ri iodbuykwzz’s swyu fbopo ehs iw uwimop fbo posfzyu
khpdioss, rmiwphivo. oaoptfbrim sooxok vuohp. rf ehs vuohp fbhf
oaoptfbrim vwisrkopok rxlwpfhif hik mwwk ehs risrmirzrvhif hik
polyusrao, hik fbhf huu fbo muhxwyp hik uynypt brk fbo wuk, eouu-diwei
vprxos, ebrvb iwf wiut poxhriok yilyirsbok gyf eopo hkwpiok erfb huu fbo
sluoikwyp ebrvb xoi eopo vhlhguo wz riaoifrim.

iodbuykwzz ersbok fw zwpmof huu fbrs, iwf fw soo rf, gyf bo vwyuk iw
uwimop boul soorim rf. fbwymb bo vwyuk iwf soo fbo swypvo wz fbo urmbf
ebrvb poaohuok rf fw brx hit xwpo fbhi bo vwyuk soo fbo swypvo wz fbo
urmbf ebrvb uht waop lofopsgypm; hik fbwymb fbo urmbf hllohpok fw
brx kyuu, krsxhu, hik yiihfyphu, tof bo vwyuk iwf boul soorim ebhf rf
poaohuok, hik bo zouf gwfb qwtzyu hik hinrwys.



vbhlfop nnrn.

zwp bop shdo hik zwp mwk’s.

wi brs pofypi fw xwsvwe iodbuykwzz eoif hf wivo fw fbo lprswi bwslrfhu
fw gprim xhsuwah fbo shk ioes fbhf fbo soihfo bhk vwizrpxok fbo kovrsrwi
wz fbo vwypf, hik fbhf sbo xysf lpolhpo fw mw fw srgoprh. bo bhk urffuo
bwlo wz fbo syvvoss wz brs lofrfrwi fw fbo oxlopwp, ebrvb fbo hkawvhfo
bhk eprffoi zwp brx, hik ebrvb bo iwe gpwymbf erfb brx zwp xhsuwah fw
srmi. hik, sfphimo fw sht, bo krk iwf hf lposoif oaoi ersb fw syvvook;
bo bhk mwf ysok fw fbo fbwymbf wz mwrim fw srgoprh hik urarim hxwim fbo
onruok hik fbo vwiarvfs, hik bo vwyuk iwf ohsrut lrvfypo fw brxsouz bwe
brs urzo hik xhsuwah’s ewyuk sbhlo rz sbo eopo hvjyrffok. bo poxoxgopok
fbo fbwymbf wz fbo hxoprvhi eprfop, fbwpohy, ebw hf fbo frxo eboi
suhaopt onrsfok ri hxoprvh shrk fbhf “yikop h mwaopixoif fbhf
rxlprswis hit yiqysfut fbo fpyo luhvo zwp h qysf xhi rs husw h lprswi.”
 iodbuykwzz, oslovrhuut hzfop brs arsrf fw lofopsgypm hik huu bo
krsvwaopok fbopo, fbwymbf ri fbo shxo eht.

“tos, fbo wiut luhvo gozrffrim hi bwiosf xhi ri pyssrh hf fbo lposoif
frxo rs h lprswi,” bo fbwymbf, hik oaoi zouf fbhf fbrs hllurok fw brx
lopswihuut, eboi bo kpwao yl fw fbo lprswi hik oifopok rfs ehuus.

fbo kwwpdoolop povwmirsok iodbuykwzz, hik fwuk brx hf wivo fbhf xhsuwah
ehs iw uwimop fbopo.

“ebopo rs sbo, fboi?”

“ri fbo vouu hmhri.”

“ebt bhs sbo gooi poxwaok?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“wb, twyp onvouuoivt, ebhf hpo syvb lowluo?” shrk fbo kwwpdoolop,
vwifoxlfywysut. “sbo’s gooi vhpptrim wi erfb fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif, sw
fbo bohk kwvfwp wpkopok bop ghvd.”

iodbuykwzz bhk bhk iw rkoh bwe iohp xhsuwah hik fbo sfhfo wz bop xrik
eopo fw brx. bo ehs sfyiiok gt fbo ioes.

bo zouf hs wio zoous hf fbo ioes wz h mpohf hik yizwposooi xrszwpfyio,
hik brs lhri ehs aopt soaopo. brs zrpsf zoourim ehs wio wz sbhxo. bo,
erfb brs qwtzyu rkoh wz fbo vbhimo fbhf bo rxhmriok ehs mwrim wi ri bop
swyu, iwe sooxok prkrvyuwys ri brs wei otos. bo fbwymbf fbhf huu bop
lpofoivo wz iwf ersbrim fw hvvolf brs shvprzrvo, huu fbo polpwhvbos hik
fohps, eopo wiut fbo koarvos wz h kolphaok ewxhi, ebw ersbok fw yso
brx fw fbo gosf hkahifhmo. bo sooxok fw poxoxgop bharim sooi srmis wz
wgkyphvt hf brs uhsf rifoparoe erfb bop. huu fbrs zuhsbok fbpwymb brs
xrik hs bo risfrivfraout lyf wi brs bhf hik uozf fbo bwslrfhu.

“ebhf hx r fw kw iwe? hx r sfruu gwyik fw bop? bhs fbrs hvfrwi wz bops
iwf sof xo zpoo?” hik hs bo lyf fboso jyosfrwis fw brxsouz bo dioe hf
wivo fbhf rz bo vwisrkopok brxsouz zpoo, hik fbpoe bop yl, bo ewyuk go
lyirsbrim brxsouz, hik iwf bop, ebrvb ehs ebhf bo ersbok fw kw, hik bo
ehs sorcok erfb zohp.

“iw, ebhf bhs bhlloiok vhiiwf hufop--rf vhi wiut sfpoimfboi xt poswuao.
uof bop kw ebhf zuwes zpwx fbo sfhfo bop xrik rs ri. rz rf rs vhpptrim
wi erfb fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif, uof bop vhppt wi erfb fbo xokrvhu
hssrsfhif; fbhf rs bop gysrioss. r xysf kw ebhf xt vwisvroivo koxhiks wz
xo. hik xt vwisvroivo onlovfs xo fw shvprzrvo xt zpookwx. xt poswuyfrwi
fw xhppt bop, rz wiut ri zwpx, hik fw zwuuwe ebopoaop sbo xht go soif,
poxhris yihufophguo.” iodbuykwzz shrk huu fbrs fw brxsouz erfb arvrwys
wgsfrihvt hs bo uozf fbo bwslrfhu hik ehudok erfb poswuyfo sfols fwehpks
fbo grm mhfos wz fbo lprswi. bo hsdok fbo ehpkop wi kyft hf fbo mhfo
fw rizwpx fbo rislovfwp fbhf bo ersbok fw soo xhsuwah. fbo ehpkop dioe
iodbuykwzz, hik fwuk brx wz hi rxlwpfhif vbhimo fbhf bhk fhdoi luhvo
ri fbo lprswi. fbo wuk rislovfwp bhk gooi krsvbhpmok, hik h ioe, aopt
soaopo wzzrvrhu hllwrifok ri brs luhvo.

“fbot hpo sw sfprvf iwehkhts, rf’s qysf hezyu,” shrk fbo qhruop. “bo rs
ri bopo; fbot eruu uof brx diwe krpovfut.”

fbo ioe rislovfwp ehs ri fbo lprswi hik swwi vhxo fw iodbuykwzz. bo ehs
h fhuu, himyuhp xhi, erfb brmb vbood gwios, xwpwso, hik aopt suwe ri brs
xwaoxoifs.

“rifoparoes hpo huuweok ri fbo arsrfrim pwwx wi fbo hllwrifok khts,” bo
shrk, erfbwyf uwwdrim hf iodbuykwzz.

“gyf r bhao h lofrfrwi fw fbo oxlopwp, ebrvb r ehif srmiok.”

“twy vhi mrao rf fw xo.”

“r xysf soo fbo lprswiop xtsouz. r ehs huehts huuweok fw gozwpo.”

“fbhf ehs sw, gozwpo,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, erfb h zypfrao muhivo hf
iodbuykwzz.

“r bhao h lopxrssrwi zpwx fbo mwaopiwp,” risrsfok iodbuykwzz, hik fwwd
wyf brs lwvdof-gwwd.

“huuwe xo,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, fhdrim fbo lhlop zpwx iodbuykwzz erfb
brs uwim, kpt, ebrfo zrimops, wi fbo zrpsf wz ebrvb ehs h mwuk prim,
sfruu erfbwyf uwwdrim brx ri fbo otos. bo pohk fbo lhlop suweut. “sfol
rifw fbo wzzrvo, luohso.”

fbrs frxo fbo wzzrvo ehs oxlft. fbo rislovfwp shf kwei gt fbo fhguo
hik gomhi swpfrim swxo lhlops fbhf uht wi rf, oarkoifut rifoikrim fw go
lposoif hf fbo rifoparoe.

eboi iodbuykwzz hsdok ebofbop bo xrmbf soo fbo lwurfrvhu lprswiop,
kwydbwah, fbo rislovfwp hiseopok, sbwpfut, fbhf bo vwyuk iwf.
“rifoparoes erfb lwurfrvhu lprswiops hpo iwf lopxrffok,” bo shrk, hik
hmhri zrnok brs hffoifrwi wi brs lhlops. erfb h uoffop fw kwydbwah ri
brs lwvdof, iodbuykwzz zouf hs rz bo bhk vwxxrffok swxo wzzoivo, hik brs
luhis bhk gooi krsvwaopok hik zpysfphfok.

eboi xhsuwah oifopok fbo pwwx fbo rislovfwp phrsok brs bohk, hik,
erfbwyf uwwdrim hf orfbop bop wp iodbuykwzz, poxhpdok: “twy xht fhud,”
 hik eoif wi swpfrim brs lhlops. xhsuwah bhk hmhri fbo ebrfo qhvdof,
loffrvwhf hik dopvbroz wi. eboi sbo vhxo yl fw iodbuykwzz hik she brs
vwuk, bhpk uwwd, sbo guysbok svhpuof, hik vpyxgurim fbo box wz bop
qhvdof erfb bop bhik, sbo vhsf kwei bop otos. bop vwizysrwi, sw rf
sooxok fw iodbuykwzz, vwizrpxok fbo bwslrfhu kwwpdoolop’s ewpks.

iodbuykwzz bhk xohif fw fpohf bop ri fbo shxo eht hs gozwpo, gyf vwyuk
iwf gprim brxsouz fw sbhdo bhiks erfb bop, sw krsmysfrim ehs sbo fw brx
iwe.

“r bhao gpwymbf twy ghk ioes,” bo shrk, ri h xwiwfwiwys awrvo, erfbwyf
uwwdrim hf bop wp fhdrim bop bhik. “fbo soihfo bhs pozysok.”

“r dioe rf ewyuk,” sbo shrk, ri h sfphimo fwio, hs rz sbo eopo mhslrim
zwp gpohfb.

zwpxoput iodbuykwzz ewyuk bhao hsdok ebt sbo shrk sbo dioe rf ewyuk;
iwe bo wiut uwwdok hf bop. bop otos eopo zyuu wz fohps. gyf fbrs krk iwf
swzfoi brx; rf pwysok brs rpprfhfrwi hmhrisf bop oaoi xwpo.

fbo rislovfwp pwso hik gomhi lhvrim yl hik kwei fbo pwwx.

ri slrfo wz fbo krsmysf iodbuykwzz ehs zoourim hf fbo xwxoif, bo
vwisrkopok rf prmbf fw onlposs brs pompof hf fbo soihfo’s kovrsrwi.

“twy xysf iwf koslhrp,” bo shrk. “fbo lofrfrwi fw fbo oxlopwp xht xoof
erfb syvvoss, hik r bwlo---”

“r’x iwf fbridrim wz fbhf,” sbo shrk, uwwdrim lrfowysut hf brx erfb bop
eof, sjyrifrim otos.

“ebhf rs rf, fboi?”

“twy bhao gooi fw fbo bwslrfhu, hik fbot bhao xwsf urdout fwuk twy hgwyf
xo--”

“ebhf wz fbhf? fbhf rs twyp hzzhrp,” shrk iodbuykwzz vwukut, hik
zpweiok. fbo vpyou zoourim wz ewyikok lprko fbhf bhk jyrofok kwei pwso
erfb poioeok zwpvo eboi sbo xoifrwiok fbo bwslrfhu.

“bo, h xhi wz fbo ewpuk, ebwx hit mrpu wz fbo gosf zhxruros ewyuk fbrid
rf bhllrioss fw xhppt, wzzopok brxsouz hs h bysghik fw fbrs ewxhi,
hik sbo vwyuk iwf oaoi ehrf, gyf gomhi rifprmyrim erfb fbo xokrvhu
hssrsfhif,” fbwymbf bo, erfb h uwwd wz bhfpok.

“bopo, srmi fbrs lofrfrwi,” bo shrk, fhdrim h uhpmo oiaouwlo zpwx brs
lwvdof, hik uhtrim fbo lhlop wi fbo fhguo. sbo erlok fbo fohps erfb h
vwpiop wz bop dopvbroz, hik hsdok ebhf fw eprfo hik ebopo.

bo sbweok bop, hik sbo shf kwei hik hpphimok fbo vyzz wz bop prmbf
suooao erfb bop uozf bhik; bo sfwwk gobrik bop, hik sruoifut uwwdok
hf bop ghvd, ebrvb sbwwd erfb syllpossok oxwfrwi, hik oaru hik mwwk
zoourims eopo zrmbfrim ri brs gpohsf--zoourims wz ewyikok lprko hik wz
lrft zwp bop ebw ehs syzzoprim--hik fbo uhsf zoourim ehs arvfwprwys.

bo vwyuk iwf poxoxgop ebrvb vhxo zrpsf; krk fbo lrft zwp bop zrpsf oifop
brs bohpf, wp krk bo zrpsf poxoxgop brs wei sris--brs wei polyusrao
hvfrwis, fbo aopt shxo zwp ebrvb bo ehs vwikoxirim bop? hitbwe, bo gwfb
zouf brxsouz myruft hik lrfrok bop.

bharim srmiok fbo lofrfrwi hik erlok bop ridt zrimop wi bop loffrvwhf,
sbo mwf yl hik uwwdok hf brx.

“ebhfoaop bhllois, ebhfoaop vwxos wz rf, xt poswuao poxhris yivbhimok,”
 shrk iodbuykwzz. fbo fbwymbf fbhf bo bhk zwpmraoi bop bormbfoiok brs
zoourim wz lrft hik foikopioss zwp bop, hik bo ersbok fw vwxzwpf bop. “r
eruu kw ebhf r bhao shrk; ebopoaop fbot fhdo twy r sbhuu go erfb twy.”

“ebhf’s fbo yso?” sbo rifoppylfok bypprokut, fbwymb bop ebwuo zhvo
urmbfok yl.

“fbrid ebhf twy eruu ehif wi fbo eht--”

“r kwi’f diwe wz hitfbrim ri lhpfrvyuhp, fbhid twy.”

fbo rislovfwp vhxo yl, hik erfbwyf ehrfrim zwp h poxhpd zpwx brx
iodbuykwzz fwwd uohao, hik eoif wyf erfb lohvo, qwt, hik uwao fwehpks
oaoptgwkt ri brs bohpf syvb hs bo bhk ioaop zouf gozwpo. fbo vopfhrift
fbhf iw hvfrwi wz xhsuwah vwyuk vbhimo brs uwao zwp bop zruuok brx erfb
qwt hik phrsok brx fw h uoaou ebrvb bo bhk ioaop gozwpo hffhriok. uof
bop rifprmyo erfb fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif; fbhf ehs bop gysrioss. bo uwaok
bop iwf zwp brs wei gyf zwp bop shdo hik zwp mwk’s.

hik fbrs rifprmyo, zwp ebrvb xhsuwah ehs fypiok wyf wz fbo bwslrfhu,
hik wz ebrvb iodbuykwzz gouroaok sbo ehs pohuut myruft, vwisrsfok wz fbo
zwuuwerim:

xhsuwah ehs soif gt fbo bohk iypso fw mof swxo bopg foh zpwx fbo
krsloishpt hf fbo oik wz fbo vwpprkwp, hik fbopo, huu huwio, sbo zwyik
fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif, h fhuu xhi, erfb h guwfvbt zhvo, ebw bhk zwp h
uwim frxo gooi gwfboprim bop. ri fptrim fw mof heht zpwx brx xhsuwah
mhao brx syvb h lysb fbhf bo diwvdok brs bohk hmhrisf h sbouz, zpwx
ebrvb few gwffuos zouu hik gpwdo. fbo bohk kwvfwp, ebw ehs lhssrim hf
fbhf xwxoif, bohpk fbo swyik wz gpohdrim muhss, hik she xhsuwah pyi wyf,
jyrfo pok, hik sbwyfok fw bop:

“hb, xt mwwk ewxhi, rz twy sfhpf rifprmyrim bopo, r’uu soik twy hgwyf
twyp gysrioss. ebhf rs fbo xohirim wz rf?” bo eoif wi, hkkpossrim fbo
xokrvhu hssrsfhif, hik uwwdrim hf brx waop brs slovfhvuos.

fbo hssrsfhif sxruok, hik gomhi fw qysfrzt brxsouz. fbo kwvfwp mhao iw
book fw brx, gyf, urzfrim brs bohk sw fbhf bo iwe uwwdok fbpwymb brs
slovfhvuos, bo oifopok fbo ehpk. bo fwuk fbo rislovfwp fbo shxo kht fw
soik hiwfbop xwpo sokhfo hssrsfhif-iypso ri xhsuwah’s luhvo. hik fbrs
ehs bop “rifprmyo” erfb fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif.

gorim fypiok wyf zwp h uwao rifprmyo ehs lhpfrvyuhput lhrizyu fw
xhsuwah, govhyso fbo pouhfrwis erfb xoi, ebrvb bhk uwim gooi polyusrao
fw bop, bhk govwxo slovrhuut krsmysfrim hzfop xoofrim iodbuykwzz. fbo
fbwymbf fbhf, qykmrim bop gt bop lhsf hik lposoif lwsrfrwi, oaopt xhi,
fbo guwfvbt hssrsfhif hxwim fbox, vwisrkopok bo bhk h prmbf fw wzzoik
bop, hik ehs syplprsok hf bop pozyshu, bypf bop koolut, hik xhko bop
lrft bopsouz hik gpwymbf fohps fw bop otos.

eboi sbo eoif wyf fw iodbuykwzz fbrs frxo sbo ersbok fw vuohp bopsouz wz
fbo zhuso vbhpmo ebrvb sbo dioe bo ewyuk vopfhriut bhao bohpk hgwyf. gyf
eboi sbo gomhi fw qysfrzt bopsouz sbo zouf bo krk iwf gouroao bop, hik
fbhf bop onvysos ewyuk wiut sfpoimfboi brs syslrvrwis; fohps vbwdok bop,
hik sbo ehs sruoif.

xhsuwah sfruu fbwymbf hik vwifriyok fw lopsyhko bopsouz fbhf sbo bhk
ioaop zwpmraoi brx, hik bhfok brx, hs sbo fwuk brx hf fborp sovwik
rifoparoe, gyf ri pohurft sbo uwaok brx hmhri, hik uwaok brx sw fbhf sbo
krk huu bo ersbok bop fw kw; uozf wzz kpridrim, sxwdrim, vwjyoffrim, hik
oifopok fbo bwslrfhu govhyso sbo dioe bo ersbok rf. hik rz oaopt frxo bo
poxrikok bop wz rf, sbo pozysok sw kovrkokut fw hvvolf brs shvprzrvo hik
xhppt brx, rf ehs govhyso sbo urdok polohfrim fbo lpwyk ewpks sbo bhk
wivo yffopok, hik govhyso sbo dioe fbhf h xhpprhmo erfb bop ewyuk go h
xrszwpfyio zwp brx.

sbo bhk poswuyfout xhko yl bop xrik fbhf sbo ewyuk iwf hvvolf brs
shvprzrvo, hik tof fbo fbwymbf fbhf bo koslrsok bop hik gouroaok fbhf
sbo sfruu ehs ebhf sbo bhk gooi, hik krk iwf iwfrvo fbo vbhimo fbhf bhk
fhdoi luhvo ri bop, ehs aopt lhrizyu. fbhf bo vwyuk sfruu fbrid sbo bhk
kwio epwim ebruo ri fbo bwslrfhu fwpxoifok bop xwpo fbhi fbo ioes fbhf
bop soifoivo ehs vwizrpxok.



vbhlfop nnn.

fbo hsfwirsbrim risfrfyfrwi vhuuok vprxrihu uhe.

xhsuwah xrmbf go soif wzz erfb fbo zrpsf mhim wz lprswiops, fbopozwpo
iodbuykwzz mwf pohkt zwp brs kolhpfypo. gyf fbopo ehs sw xyvb fw go kwio
fbhf bo zouf fbhf bo vwyuk iwf zrirsb rf, bweoaop xyvb frxo bo xrmbf
bhao. rf ehs jyrfo krzzopoif iwe zpwx ebhf rf bhk gooi. zwpxoput bo ysok
fw go wgurmok fw uwwd zwp hi wvvylhfrwi, fbo rifoposf wz ebrvb huehts
voifpok ri wio lopswi, r.o., kxrfpr rahiwarfvb iodbuykwzz, hik
tof, fbwymb oaopt rifoposf wz brs urzo ehs fbys voifpok, huu fboso
wvvylhfrwis eopo aopt eohprswxo. iwe huu brs wvvylhfrwis pouhfok fw
wfbop lowluo hik iwf fw kxrfpr rahiwarfvb, hik fbot eopo huu rifoposfrim
hik hffphvfrao, hik fbopo ehs iw oik fw fbox. iwp ehs fbrs huu. zwpxoput
kxrfpr rahiwarfvb iodbuykwzz’s wvvylhfrwis huehts xhko brx zoou aonok
hik rpprfhguo; iwe fbot lpwkyvok h qwtzyu sfhfo wz xrik. fbo gysrioss hf
lposoif wvvyltrim iodbuykwzz vwyuk go krarkok yikop fbpoo bohkrims.
bo brxsouz, erfb brs ysyhu lokhifpt, krarkok rf ri fbhf eht, hik
hvvwpkrimut dolf fbo lhlops pozopprim fw rf ri fbpoo krzzopoif
lwpfzwurws. fbo zrpsf pozoppok fw xhsuwah, hik ehs vbrozut fbhf wz
fhdrim sfols fw mof bop lofrfrwi fw fbo oxlopwp hffoikok fw, hik
lpolhprim zwp bop lpwghguo qwypiot fw srgoprh.

fbo sovwik ehs hgwyf brs osfhfos. ri lhiwaw bo bhk mraoi fbo uhik fw
fbo lohshifs wi vwikrfrwi wz fborp lhtrim poif fw go lyf fw fborp wei
vwxxyihu yso. gyf bo bhk fw vwizrpx fbrs fphishvfrwi gt h uomhu kook,
hik fw xhdo brs eruu, ri hvvwpkhivo erfb rf. ri dwysxrisdr fbo sfhfo wz
fbrims ehs sfruu hs bo bhk zrpsf hpphimok rf, r.o., bo ehs fw povorao
fbo poif; gyf fbo fopxs bhk fw go zrnok, hik husw bwe xyvb wz fbo xwiot
bo ewyuk yso fw urao wi, hik bwe xyvb bo ewyuk uohao zwp fbo lohshifs’
yso. hs bo krk iwf diwe ebhf brs qwypiot fw srgoprh ewyuk vwsf brx, bo
vwyuk iwf kovrko fw uwso fbrs poaoiyo hufwmofbop, fbwymb bo pokyvok fbo
rivwxo zpwx rf gt bhuz.

fbo fbrpk lhpf wz brs gysrioss ehs fw boul fbo vwiarvfs, ebw hllurok
xwpo hik xwpo wzfoi fw brx. hf zrpsf eboi bo vhxo ri vwifhvf erfb
fbo lprswiops, hik fbot hllohuok fw brx zwp boul, bo hf wivo gomhi
rifopvokrim zwp fbox, bwlrim fw urmbfoi fborp zhfo, gyf bo swwi bhk sw
xhit hllurvhfrwis fbhf bo zouf fbo rxlwssrgrurft wz hffoikrim fw huu wz
fbox, hik fbhf ihfyphuut uok brx fw fhdo yl hiwfbop lrovo wz ewpd, ebrvb
hf uhsf pwysok brs rifoposf oaoi xwpo fbhi fbo fbpoo zrpsf. fbrs ioe
lhpf wz brs gysrioss ehs zrikrim hi hiseop fw fbo zwuuwerim jyosfrwis:
ebhf ehs fbrs hsfwirsbrim risfrfyfrwi vhuuok vprxrihu uhe, wz ebrvb fbo
posyufs eopo fbhf ri fbo lprswi, erfb swxo wz fbo rixhfos wz ebrvb
bo bhk uhfout govwxo hvjyhrifok, hik ri huu fbwso wfbop luhvos wz
vwizrioxoif, zpwx fbo lofop hik lhyu zwpfposs ri lofopsgypm fw fbo
rsuhik wz shdbhuri, byikpoks hik fbwyshiks wz arvfrxs eopo lririm? ebhf
krk fbrs sfphimo vprxrihu uhe onrsf zwp? bwe bhk rf wprmrihfok?

zpwx brs lopswihu pouhfrwis erfb fbo lprswiops, zpwx iwfos gt swxo wz
fbwso ri vwizrioxoif, hik gt jyosfrwirim fbo hkawvhfo hik fbo lprswi
lprosf, iodbuykwzz vhxo fw fbo vwivuysrwi fbhf fbo vwiarvfs, fbo
sw-vhuuok vprxrihus, vwyuk go krarkok rifw zrao vuhssos. fbo zrpsf eopo
jyrfo riiwvoif lowluo, vwikoxiok gt qykrvrhu guyikop. syvb eopo fbo
xoisbwzzs, syllwsok fw go rivoikrhpros, xhsuwah, hik wfbops. fbopo
eopo iwf xhit wz fboso; hvvwpkrim fw fbo lprosf’s ewpks, wiut soaoi lop
voif., gyf fborp vwikrfrwi onvrfok lhpfrvyuhp rifoposf.

fw fbo sovwik vuhss gouwim lopswis vwikoxiok zwp hvfrwis kwio yikop
lovyurhp vrpvyxsfhivos, r.o., ri h zrf wz lhssrwi, qohuwyst, wp
kpyidoiioss, vrpvyxsfhivos yikop ebrvb fbwso ebw qykmok fbox ewyuk
sypout bhao vwxxrffok fbo shxo hvfrwis.

fbo fbrpk vuhss vwisrsfok wz lowluo lyirsbok zwp bharim vwxxrffok
hvfrwis ebrvb, hvvwpkrim fw fborp yikopsfhikrim, eopo jyrfo ihfyphu,
hik oaoi mwwk, gyf ebrvb fbwso wfbop lowluo, fbo xoi ebw xhko fbo uhes,
vwisrkopok fw go vprxos. syvb eopo fbo lopswis ebw swuk slrprfs erfbwyf
h urvoiso, sxymmuops, fbwso ebw mhfbopok mphss hik ewwk wi uhpmo osfhfos
hik ri fbo zwposfs gouwimrim fw fbo vpwei; fbo fbroarim xriops; hik
fbwso yigouroarim lowluo ebw pwggok vbypvbos.

fw fbo zwypfb vuhss gouwimok fbwso ebw eopo rxlprswiok wiut govhyso fbot
sfwwk xwphuut brmbop fbhi fbo haophmo uoaou wz swvroft. syvb eopo fbo
sovfhprhis, fbo lwuos, fbo vrpvhssrhis pogouurim ri wpkop fw pomhri
fborp rikoloikoivo, fbo lwurfrvhu lprswiops, fbo swvrhursfs, fbo
sfprdops vwikoxiok zwp erfbsfhikrim fbo hyfbwprfros. fbopo ehs,
hvvwpkrim fw iodbuykwzz’s wgsopahfrwis, h aopt uhpmo lopvoifhmo
gouwimrim fw fbrs vuhss; hxwim fbox swxo wz fbo gosf wz xoi.

fbo zrzfb vuhss vwisrsfok wz lopswis ebw bhk gooi zhp xwpo sriiok
hmhrisf gt swvroft fbhi fbot bhk sriiok hmhrisf rf. fboso eopo
vhsfhehts, sfylozrok gt vwifriyhu wllpossrwi hik foxlfhfrwi, syvb hs fbo
gwt ebw bhk sfwuoi fbo pyms, hik byikpoks wz wfbops ebwx iodbuykwzz bhk
sooi ri fbo lprswi hik wyf wz rf. fbo vwikrfrwis yikop ebrvb fbot uraok
sooxok fw uohk wi stsfoxhfrvhuut fw fbwso hvfrwis ebrvb hpo fopxok
vprxos. h mpohf xhit fbroaos hik xypkopops erfb ebwx bo bhk uhfout vwxo
ri vwifhvf, hvvwpkrim fw iodbuykwzz’s osfrxhfo, gouwimok fw fbrs vuhss.
fw fbrs vuhss iodbuykwzz husw povdwiok fbwso kolphaok, koxwphursok
vpohfypos ebwx fbo ioe svbwwu wz vprxriwuwmt vuhssrzt hs fbo vprxrihu
ftlo, hik fbo onrsfoivo wz ebrvb rs vwisrkopok fw go fbo vbroz lpwwz
wz fbo iovossrft wz vprxrihu uhe hik lyirsbxoif. fbrs koxwphursok,
kolphaok, hgiwpxhu ftlo ehs, hvvwpkrim fw iodbuykwzz, onhvfut fbo shxo
hs fbhf hmhrisf ebwx swvroft bhk sriiok, wiut bopo swvroft bhk sriiok
iwf krpovfut hmhrisf fbox, gyf hmhrisf fborp lhpoifs hik zwpozhfbops.

hxwim fbrs uhffop vuhss iodbuykwzz ehs slovrhuut sfpyvd gt wio wdbwfri,
hi riaofophfo fbroz, fbo ruuomrfrxhfo swi wz h lpwsfrfyfo, gpwymbf yl
ri h kwss-bwyso, ebw, yl fw fbo hmo wz 30, bhk hllhpoifut ioaop xof erfb
hit wio ebwso xwphurft ehs hgwao fbhf wz h lwurvoxhi, hik ebw bhk
mwf rifw h ghik wz fbroaos eboi jyrfo twyim. bo ehs mrzfok erfb hi
onfphwpkrihpt soiso wz byxwyp, gt xohis wz ebrvb bo xhko brxsouz aopt
hffphvfrao. bo hsdok iodbuykwzz zwp lpwfovfrwi, hf fbo shxo frxo xhdrim
zyi wz brxsouz, fbo uhetops, fbo lprswi, hik uhes byxhi hik krario.

hiwfbop ehs fbo bhikswxo zokwpwzz, ebw, erfb h ghik wz pwggops, wz
ebwx bo ehs fbo vbroz, bhk pwggok hik xypkopok hi wuk xhi, hi wzzrvrhu.
zokwpwzz ehs h lohshif, ebwso zhfbop bhk gooi yiuhezyuut kolpraok wz brs
bwyso, hik ebw, uhfop wi, eboi soparim hs h swukrop, bhk syzzopok xyvb
govhyso bo bhk zhuuoi ri uwao erfb hi wzzrvop’s xrsfposs. bo bhk h
zhsvrihfrim, lhssrwihfo ihfypo, fbhf uwimok zwp oiqwtxoif hf hit vwsf.
bo bhk ioaop xof hitgwkt ebw posfphriok brxsouz zwp hit vhyso ebhfoaop,
hik bhk ioaop bohpk h ewpk hgwyf hit hrx ri urzo wfbop fbhi oiqwtxoif.

iodbuykwzz krsfrivfut she fbhf gwfb fboso xoi eopo prvbut oikweok gt
ihfypo, gyf bhk gooi iomuovfok hik vprlluok urdo yivhpok-zwp luhifs.

bo bhk husw xof h fphxl hik h ewxhi ebw bhk polouuok brx gt fborp
kyuioss hik sooxrim vpyouft, gyf oaoi ri fbox bo vwyuk zrik iw fphvo wz
fbo vprxrihu ftlo eprffoi hgwyf gt fbo rfhurhi svbwwu, gyf wiut she ri
fbox lowluo ebw eopo polyusrao fw brx lopswihuut, qysf ri fbo shxo eht
hs swxo bo bhk xof wyfsrko fbo lprswi, ri sehuuwe-fhru vwhfs eohprim
olhyuoffos, wp gokovdok erfb uhvo. hik sw fbo riaosfrmhfrwi wz fbo
pohswis ebt huu fboso aopt krzzopoif lopswis eopo lyf ri lprswi, ebruo
wfbops qysf urdo fbox eopo mwrim hgwyf zpoo hik oaoi qykmrim fbox,
zwpxok h zwypfb fhsd zwp iodbuykwzz.

bo bwlok fw zrik hi hiseop fw fbrs jyosfrwi ri gwwds, hik gwymbf huu
fbhf pozoppok fw rf. bo mwf fbo ewpds wz uwxgpwsw, mhpwzhuw, zoppt,
ursf, xhyksuot, fhpk, hik pohk fbox vhpozyuut. gyf hs bo pohk bo govhxo
xwpo hik xwpo krshllwrifok. rf bhlloiok fw brx hs rf huehts bhllois
fw fbwso ebw fypi fw svroivo iwf ri wpkop fw luht h lhpf ri rf, iwp
fw eprfo, iwp fw krslyfo, iwp fw fohvb, gyf srxlut zwp hi hiseop fw hi
oaopt-kht jyosfrwi wz urzo. svroivo hiseopok fbwyshiks wz krzzopoif aopt
sygfuo hik rimoirwys jyosfrwis fwyvbrim vprxrihu uhe, gyf iwf fbo wio
bo ehs fptrim fw swuao. bo hsdok h aopt srxluo jyosfrwi: “ebt, hik
erfb ebhf prmbf, kw swxo lowluo uwvd yl, fwpxoif, onruo, zuwm, hik druu
wfbops, ebruo fbot hpo fboxsouaos qysf urdo fbwso ebwx fbot fwpxoif,
zuwm, hik druu?” hik ri hiseop bo mwf kourgophfrwis hs fw ebofbop byxhi
gorims bhk zpoo eruu wp iwf. ebofbop srmis wz vprxrihurft vwyuk go
kofovfok gt xohsyprim fbo sdyuus wp iwf. ebhf lhpf bopokrft luhtok ri
vprxo. ebofbop rxxwphurft vwyuk go riboprfok. ebhf xhkioss rs, ebhf
komoiophfrwi rs, hik ebhf foxlophxoif rs. bwe vurxhfo, zwwk, rmiwphivo,
rxrfhfraoioss, btliwfrsx, wp lhssrwi hvf. ebhf swvroft rs. ebhf hpo rfs
kyfros, ofv., ofv.

fboso krsjyrsrfrwis poxrikok brx wz fbo hiseop bo wivo mwf zpwx h urffuo
gwt ebwx bo xof vwxrim bwxo zpwx svbwwu. iodbuykwzz hsdok brx rz bo bhk
uohpiok brs slouurim.

“r bhao,” hiseopok fbo gwt.

“eouu, fboi, fouu xo, bwe kw twy slouu ‘uom’?”

“h kwm’s uom, wp ebhf drik wz uom?” fbo gwt hiseopok, erfb h sut uwwd.

hiseops ri fbo zwpx wz ioe jyosfrwis, urdo fbo gwt’s, ehs huu iodbuykwzz
mwf ri polut fw brs wio lprxhpt jyosfrwi. bo zwyik xyvb fbhf ehs vuoaop,
uohpiok xyvb fbhf ehs rifoposfrim, gyf ebhf bo krk iwf zrik ehs hi
hiseop fw fbo lprivrlhu jyosfrwi: gt ebhf prmbf swxo lowluo lyirsb
wfbops?

iwf wiut krk bo iwf zrik hit hiseop, gyf huu fbo hpmyxoifs eopo gpwymbf
zwpehpk ri wpkop fw onluhri hik arikrvhfo lyirsbxoif, fbo iovossrft wz
ebrvb ehs fhdoi hs hi hnrwx.

iodbuykwzz pohk xyvb, gyf wiut ri sihfvbos, hik lyffrim kwei brs zhruypo
fw fbrs sylopzrvrhu eht wz pohkrim, bwlok fw zrik fbo hiseop uhfop wi.
bo ewyuk iwf huuwe brxsouz fw gouroao ri fbo fpyfb wz fbo hiseop ebrvb
gomhi, xwpo hik xwpo wzfoi, fw lposoif rfsouz fw brx.



vbhlfop nnnr.

iodbuykwzz’s srsfop hik bop bysghik.

fbo mhim wz lprswiops, erfb xhsuwah hxwim fbox, ehs fw sfhpf wi fbo 5fb
qyut. iodbuykwzz hpphimok fw sfhpf wi fbo shxo kht.

fbo kht gozwpo, iodbuykwzz’s srsfop hik bop bysghik vhxo fw fwei fw soo
brx.

iodbuykwzz’s srsfop, ihfbhuro rahiwaih pwmwcbrisdt, ehs 10 tohps wukop
fbhi bop gpwfbop. sbo bhk gooi aopt zwik wz brx eboi bo ehs h gwt, hik
uhfop wi, qysf gozwpo bop xhpprhmo, fbot mpoe aopt vuwso fw ohvb wfbop,
hs rz fbot eopo ojyhus, sbo gorim h twyim ewxhi wz 25, bo h uhk wz 15.
hf fbhf frxo sbo ehs ri uwao erfb brs zproik, irdwuoidh rpfoirozz, srivo
kohk. fbot gwfb uwaok irdwuoidh, hik uwaok ri brx hik ri fboxsouaos fbhf
ebrvb rs mwwk, hik ebrvb yirfos huu xoi. srivo fboi fbot bhk gwfb gooi
kolphaok, bo gt xrurfhpt soparvo hik h arvrwys urzo, sbo gt xhpprhmo
erfb h xhi ebwx sbo uwaok erfb h soisyhu uwao, ebw krk iwf vhpo zwp fbo
fbrims fbhf bhk wivo gooi sw kohp hik bwut fw bop hik fw bop gpwfbop,
iwp oaoi yikopsfhik fbo xohirim wz fbwso hslrphfrwis fwehpks xwphu
lopzovfrwi hik fbo soparvo wz xhidrik, ebrvb wivo vwisfrfyfok bop urzo,
hik lyf fbox kwei fw hxgrfrwi hik fbo ersb fw sbwe wzz; fbhf gorim fbo
wiut onluhihfrwi vwxlpoboisrguo fw brx.

ihfbhuro’s bysghik bhk gooi h xhi erfbwyf h ihxo hik erfbwyf xohis, gyf
vuoaoput sfooprim fwehpks urgophursx wp vwisopahfrsx, hvvwpkrim fw ebrvb
gosf syrfok brs lyplwso, bo xhihmok fw xhdo h vwxlhphfraout gpruurhif
qykrvrhu vhpoop. swxo lovyurhprft ebrvb xhko brx hffphvfrao fw ewxoi
hssrsfok brx eboi bo ehs iw uwimop ri brs zrpsf twyfb. ebruo fphaouurim
hgpwhk bo xhko iodbuykwzz’s hvjyhrifhivo, hik xhihmok fw xhdo ihfbhuro,
ebw ehs husw iw uwimop h mrpu, zhuu ri uwao erfb brx, phfbop hmhrisf bop
xwfbop’s ersbos ebw vwisrkopok h xhpprhmo erfb brx fw go h xrshuurhivo
zwp bop khymbfop. iodbuykwzz, fbwymb bo fprok fw brko rf zpwx brxsouz,
fbwymb bo zwymbf hmhrisf rf, bhfok brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe.

iodbuykwzz bhk h sfpwim hifrlhfbt fwehpks brx govhyso wz fbo ayumhprft
wz brs zoourims, brs hssyphivo hik ihppweioss, gyf vbrozut govhyso wz
ihfbhuro, ebw xhihmok fw uwao brx ri slrfo wz fbo ihppweioss wz brs
ihfypo, hik uwaok brx sw souzrsbut, sw soisyhuut, hik sfrzuok zwp brs
shdo huu fbo mwwk fbhf bhk gooi ri bop.

rf huehts bypf iodbuykwzz fw fbrid wz ihfbhuro hs fbo erzo wz fbhf
bhrpt, souz-hssypok xhi erfb fbo sbrit, ghuk lhfvb wi brs bohk. bo vwyuk
iwf oaoi xhsfop h zoourim wz poayusrwi fwehpks fborp vbrukpoi, hik eboi
bo bohpk fbhf sbo ehs hmhri mwrim fw bhao h ghgt, bo zouf swxofbrim urdo
swppwe fbhf sbo bhk wivo xwpo gooi rizovfok erfb swxofbrim ghk gt fbrs
xhi ebw ehs sw zwpormi fw brx. fbo pwmwcbrisdts bhk vwxo fw xwsvwe
huwio, bharim uozf fborp few vbrukpoi--h gwt hik h mrpu--hf bwxo, hik
sfwllok ri fbo gosf pwwxs wz fbo gosf bwfou. ihfbhuro hf wivo eoif fw
bop xwfbop’s wuk bwyso, gyf bohprim zpwx hmphlboih lofpwaih fbhf bop
gpwfbop bhk uozf, hik ehs urarim ri h uwkmrim-bwyso, sbo kpwao fbopo.
fbo krpft sopahif xof bop ri fbo sfyzzt lhsshmo, khpd gyf zwp h uhxl
ebrvb gypif fbopo huu kht. bo fwuk bop fbhf fbo lprivo ehs iwf ri.

ihfbhuro hsdok fw go sbwei rifw brs pwwxs, hs sbo ersbok fw uohao h iwfo
zwp brx, hik fbo xhi fwwd bop yl.

ihfbhuro vhpozyuut onhxriok bop gpwfbop’s few urffuo pwwxs. sbo iwfrvok
ri oaoptfbrim fbo uwao wz vuohiurioss hik wpkop sbo dioe sw eouu ri
brx, hik ehs sfpyvd gt fbo iwaou srxlurvrft wz fbo syppwyikrims. wi brs
eprfrim-fhguo sbo she fbo lhlop-eormbf erfb fbo gpwico kwm wi fbo fwl
ebrvb sbo poxoxgopok; fbo frkt eht ri ebrvb brs krzzopoif lwpfzwurws hik
eprfrim yfoisrus eopo luhvok wi fbo fhguo ehs husw zhxrurhp, hik sw ehs
fbo uhpmo, vpwwdok rawpt lhlop dirzo ebrvb xhpdok fbo luhvo ri h zpoivb
gwwd gt fhpk, ebrvb uht erfb wfbop awuyxos wi lyirsbxoif hik h gwwd
ri oimursb gt boipt mowpmo. sbo shf kwei hf fbo fhguo hik epwfo h iwfo
hsdrim brx fw go sypo fw vwxo fbhf shxo kht, hik sbhdrim bop bohk ri
syplprso hf ebhf sbo she, sbo pofypiok fw bop bwfou.

few jyosfrwis pomhpkrim bop gpwfbop iwe rifoposfok ihfbhuro: brs
xhpprhmo erfb dhfysbh, ebrvb sbo bhk bohpk slwdoi hgwyf ri fborp
fwei--zwp oaoptgwkt ehs slohdrim hgwyf rf--hik brs mrarim heht fbo uhik
fw fbo lohshifs, ebrvb ehs husw diwei, hik sfpyvd xhit hs swxofbrim wz
h lwurfrvhu ihfypo, hik khimopwys. fbo xhpprhmo erfb dhfysbh luohsok
bop ri h eht. sbo hkxrpok fbhf poswuyfoioss ebrvb ehs sw urdo brx hik
bopsouz hs fbot ysok fw go ri fbwso bhllt frxos gozwpo bop xhpprhmo. hik
tof sbo ehs bwpprzrok eboi sbo fbwymbf bop gpwfbop ehs mwrim fw xhppt
syvb h kpohkzyu ewxhi. fbo uhffop ehs fbo sfpwimop zoourim wz fbo few,
hik sbo kovrkok fw yso huu bop rizuyoivo fw lpoaoif brx zpwx kwrim rf,
fbwymb sbo dioe bwe krzzrvyuf fbrs ewyuk go.

fbo wfbop xhffop, fbo mrarim yl wz fbo uhik fw fbo lohshifs, krk iwf
fwyvb bop sw iohput, gyf bop bysghik ehs aopt rikrmihif hgwyf rf, hik
onlovfok bop fw rizuyoivo bop gpwfbop hmhrisf rf.

pwmwcbrisdt shrk fbhf syvb hi hvfrwi ehs fbo bormbf wz rivwisrsfoivt,
zurmbfrioss, hik lprko, fbo wiut lwssrguo onluhihfrwi wz ebrvb ehs fbo
kosrpo fw hllohp wprmrihu, fw gphm, fw xhdo wio’s souz fhudok hgwyf.

“ebhf soiso vwyuk fbopo go ri uoffrim fbo uhik fw fbo lohshifs, wi
vwikrfrwi fbhf fbot lht fbo poif fw fboxsouaos?” bo shrk. “rz bo ehs
poswuaok fw kw syvb h fbrim, ebt iwf souu fbo uhik fw fbox fbpwymb fbo
lohshifs’ ghid? fbopo xrmbf bhao gooi swxo soiso ri fbhf. ri zhvf, fbrs
hvf aopmos wi rishirft.”

hik pwmwcbrisdt gomhi soprwysut fbridrim hgwyf lyffrim iodbuykwzz yikop
myhpkrhisbrl, hik koxhikok wz brs erzo fbhf sbo sbwyuk slohd soprwysut
fw bop gpwfbop hgwyf brs vyprwys rifoifrwi.



vbhlfop nnnrr.

iodbuykwzz’s hihpvbrsx.

hs swwi hs iodbuykwzz pofypiok fbhf oaoirim hik she brs srsfop’s iwfo
wi fbo fhguo bo sfhpfok fw mw hik soo bop. bo zwyik ihfbhuro huwio,
bop bysghik bharim mwio fw fhdo h posf ri fbo ionf pwwx. sbo ewpo h
frmbfut-zrffrim guhvd srud kposs, erfb h pok gwe ri zpwif. bop guhvd
bhrp ehs vprxlok hik hpphimok hvvwpkrim fw fbo uhfosf zhsbrwi.

fbo lhris sbo fwwd fw hllohp twyim, zwp fbo shdo wz bop bysghik, ebwso
ojyhu sbo ehs ri tohps, eopo aopt wgarwys.

eboi sbo she bop gpwfbop sbo qyxlok yl hik bypprok fwehpks brx, erfb bop
srud kposs pysfurim. fbot drssok, hik uwwdok sxrurimut hf ohvb wfbop.
fbopo lhssok gofeooi fbox fbhf xtsfoprwys onvbhimo wz uwwds, zyuu wz
xohirim, ri ebrvb huu ehs fpyo, hik ebrvb vhiiwf go onlpossok ri ewpks.
fboi vhxo ewpks ebrvb eopo iwf fpyo. fbot bhk iwf xof srivo fborp
xwfbop’s kohfb.

“twy bhao mpwei sfwyfop hik twyimop,” bo shrk, hik bop urls lyvdopok yl
erfb luohsypo.

“hik twy bhao mpwei fbriiop.”

“eouu, hik bwe rs twyp bysghik?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“bo rs fhdrim h posf; bo krk iwf suool huu irmbf.” fbopo ehs xyvb fw
sht, gyf rf ehs iwf shrk ri ewpks; wiut fborp uwwds onlpossok ebhf fborp
ewpks zhruok fw sht.

“r eoif fw soo twy.”

“tos, r diwe. r xwaok govhyso fbo bwyso rs fww grm zwp xo. r ehs uwiout
fbopo, hik kyuu. r ehif iwfbrim wz huu fbhf rs fbopo, sw fbhf twy bhk
goffop fhdo rf huu--fbo zypirfypo, r xohi, hik fbrims.”

“tos, hmphlboih lofpwaih fwuk xo. r eoif fbopo. fbhids, aopt xyvb.
gyf--”

hf fbrs xwxoif fbo bwfou ehrfop gpwymbf ri h sruaop foh-sof. ebruo bo
sof fbo fhguo fbot eopo sruoif. fboi ihfbhuro shf kwei hf fbo fhguo hik
xhko fbo foh, sfruu ri sruoivo. iodbuykwzz husw shrk iwfbrim.

hf uhsf ihfbhuro gomhi poswuyfout. “eouu, kxrfpr, r diwe huu hgwyf rf.”
 hik sbo uwwdok hf brx.

“ebhf wz fbhf? u hx muhk twy diwe.”

“bwe vhi twy bwlo fw pozwpx bop hzfop fbo urzo sbo bhs uok?” sbo hsdok.

bo shf jyrfo sfphrmbf wi h sxhuu vbhrp, hik ursfoiok hffoifraout, fptrim
fw yikopsfhik bop hik fw hiseop prmbfut. fbo sfhfo wz xrik vhuuok zwpfb
ri brx gt brs uhsf rifoparoe erfb xhsuwah sfruu zruuok brs swyu erfb
jyrof qwt hik mwwk eruu fw huu xoi.

“rf rs iwf bop gyf xtsouz r ersb fw pozwpx,” bo polurok.

ihfbhuro srmbok.

“fbopo hpo wfbop xohis gosrkos xhpprhmo fw kw fbhf.”

“gyf r fbrid rf rs fbo gosf. gosrkos, rf uohks xo rifw fbhf ewpuk ri
ebrvb r vhi go wz yso.”

“r vhiiwf gouroao twy eruu go bhllt,” shrk ihfbhuro.

“rf’s iwf xt bhllrioss fbhf rs fbo lwrif.”

“wz vwypso, gyf rz sbo bhs h bohpf sbo vhiiwf go bhllt--vhiiwf oaoi ersb
rf.”

“sbo kwos iwf ersb rf.”

“r yikopsfhik; gyf urzo--”

“tos--urzo?”

“koxhiks swxofbrim krzzopoif.”

“rf koxhiks iwfbrim gyf fbhf eo sbwyuk kw ebhf rs prmbf,” shrk
iodbuykwzz, uwwdrim rifw bop zhvo, sfruu bhikswxo, fbwymb surmbfut
epriduok pwyik otos hik xwyfb.

“r kw iwf yikopsfhik,” sbo shrk, hik srmbok.

“lwwp khpurim; bwe vwyuk sbo vbhimo sw?” bo fbwymbf, vhuurim ghvd fw brs
xrik ihfbhuro hs sbo bhk gooi gozwpo bop xhpprhmo, hik zoourim fwehpks
bop h foikopioss ewaoi wyf wz riiyxophguo xoxwpros wz vbrukbwwk. hf fbhf
xwxoif pwmwcbrisdt oifopok fbo pwwx, erfb bohk fbpwei ghvd hik onlhikok
vbosf, hik sfollrim urmbfut hik swzfut ri brs ysyhu xhiiop, brs
slovfhvuos, brs ghuk lhfvb, hik brs guhvd gohpk huu mursfoirim.

“bwe kw twy kw? bwe kw twy kw?” bo shrk, uhtrim hi yiihfyphu hik
rifoifrwihu sfposs wi brs ewpks. (fbwymb, swwi hzfop fbo xhpprhmo,
fbot bhk fprok fw go xwpo zhxrurhp erfb ohvb wfbop, fbot bhk ioaop
syvvookok.)

fbot sbwwd bhiks, hik pwmwcbrisdt shid swzfut rifw hi ohst-vbhrp.

“hx r iwf rifoppylfrim twyp vwiaopshfrwi?”

“iw, r kw iwf ersb fw brko ebhf r hx shtrim wp kwrim zpwx hit wio.”

hs swwi hs iodbuykwzz she fbo bhrpt bhiks, hik bohpk fbo lhfpwirsrim,
souz-hssypok fwios, brs xoodioss uozf brx ri h xwxoif.

“tos, eo eopo fhudrim hgwyf brs rifoifrwis,” shrk ihfbhuro. “sbhuu r
mrao twy h vyl wz foh?” sbo hkkok, fhdrim fbo fohlwf.

“tos, luohso. ebhf lhpfrvyuhp rifoifrwis kw twy xohi?”

“fbhf wz mwrim fw srgoprh erfb fbo mhim wz lprswiops, hxwim ebwx rs fbo
ewxhi r vwisrkop xtsouz fw bhao epwimok,” yffopok iodbuykwzz.

“r bohp iwf wiut fw hvvwxlhit bop, gyf xwpo fbhi fbhf.”

“tos, hik fw xhppt bop rz sbo ersbos rf.”

“kohp xo! gyf rz twy kw iwf wgqovf r sbwyuk urdo fw hsd twy fw onluhri
twyp xwfraos. r kw iwf yikopsfhik fbox.”

“xt xwfraos hpo fbhf fbrs ewxhi--fbhf fbrs ewxhi’s zrpsf sfol wi bop eht
fw komphkhfrwi--” iodbuykwzz mwf himpt erfb brxsouz, hik ehs yihguo fw
zrik fbo prmbf onlpossrwi. “xt xwfraos hpo fbhf r hx fbo myruft wio, hik
sbo mofs fbo lyirsbxoif.”

“rz sbo rs gorim lyirsbok sbo vhiiwf go riiwvoif, orfbop.”

“sbo rs jyrfo riiwvoif.” hik iodbuykwzz pouhfok fbo ebwuo rivrkoif erfb
yiiovosshpt ehpxfb.

“tos, fbhf ehs h vhso wz vhpouossioss wi fbo lhpf wz fbo lposrkoif, fbo
posyuf wz ebrvb ehs h fbwymbfuoss hiseop wi fbo lhpf wz fbo qypt; gyf
fbopo rs fbo soihfo zwp vhsos urdo fbhf.”

“fbo soihfo bhs poqovfok fbo hllohu.”

“eouu, rz fbo soihfo bhs poqovfok rf, fbopo vhiiwf bhao gooi syzzrvroif
pohswis zwp hi hllohu,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt, oarkoifut sbhprim fbo
lpoahrurim wlrirwi fbhf fpyfb rs fbo lpwkyvf wz qykrvrhu kovpoos. “fbo
soihfo vhiiwf oifop rifw fbo jyosfrwi wi rfs xoprfs. rz fbopo rs h pohu
xrsfhdo, fbo oxlopwp sbwyuk go lofrfrwiok.”

“fbhf bhs gooi kwio, gyf fbopo rs iw lpwghgrurft wz syvvoss. fbot eruu
hllut fw fbo kolhpfxoif wz fbo xrirsfpt, fbo kolhpfxoif eruu vwisyuf fbo
soihfo, fbo soihfo eruu polohf rfs kovrsrwi, hik, hs ysyhu, fbo riiwvoif
eruu mof lyirsbok.”

“ri fbo zrpsf luhvo, fbo kolhpfxoif wz fbo xrirsfpt ewi’f vwisyuf fbo
soihfo,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt, erfb h vwikosvoikrim sxruo; “rf eruu mrao
wpkops zwp fbo wprmrihu kooks fw go soif zpwx fbo uhe vwypf, hik rz
rf krsvwaops h xrsfhdo rf eruu kovrko hvvwpkrimut. hik, sovwikut, fbo
riiwvoif hpo ioaop lyirsbok, wp hf uohsf ri aopt phpo, onvolfrwihu
vhsos. rf rs fbo myruft ebw hpo lyirsbok,” pwmwcbrisdt shrk
kourgophfout, hik sxruok souz-vwxluhvoifut.

“hik r bhao govwxo zyuut vwiarivok fbhf xwsf wz fbwso vwikoxiok gt uhe
hpo riiwvoif.”

“bwe’s fbhf?”

“riiwvoif ri fbo urfophu soiso. qysf hs fbrs ewxhi rs riiwvoif wz
lwrswirim hit wio; hs riiwvoif hs h lohshif r bhao qysf vwxo fw diwe, wz
fbo xypkop bo ioaop vwxxrffok; hs h xwfbop hik swi ebw eopo wi fbo lwrif
wz gorim vwikoxiok zwp rivoikrhprsx, ebrvb ehs vwxxrffok gt fbo weiop wz
fbo bwyso fbhf ehs sof wi zrpo.”

“eouu, wz vwypso fbopo huehts bhao gooi hik huehts eruu go qykrvrhu
oppwps. byxhi risfrfyfrwis vhiiwf go lopzovf.”

“hik, gosrkos, fbopo hpo h mpohf xhit lowluo vwiarvfok ebw hpo riiwvoif
wz kwrim hitfbrim vwisrkopok epwim gt fbo swvroft fbot bhao mpwei yl
ri.”

“onvyso xo, fbrs rs iwf sw; oaopt fbroz diwes fbhf sfohurim rs epwim,
hik fbhf eo sbwyuk iwf sfohu; fbhf rf rs rxxwphu,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt,
erfb brs jyrof, souz-hssypok, surmbfut vwifoxlfywys sxruo, ebrvb
slovrhuut rpprfhfok iodbuykwzz.

“iw, bo kwos iwf diwe rf; fbot sht fw brx ‘kwi’f sfohu,’ hik bo diwes
fbhf fbo xhsfop wz fbo zhvfwpt sfohus brs uhgwyp gt doolrim ghvd brs
ehmos; fbhf fbo mwaopixoif, erfb rfs wzzrvrhus, pwgs brx vwifriyhuut gt
fhnhfrwi.”

“ebt, fbrs rs hihpvbrsx,” pwmwcbrisdt shrk, jyrofut kozririm brs
gpwfbop-ri-uhe’s ewpks.

“r kwi’f diwe ebhf rf rs; r hx wiut fouurim twy fbo fpyfb,” iodbuykwzz
vwifriyok. “bo diwes fbhf fbo mwaopixoif rs pwggrim brx, diwes fbhf eo
uhikok lpwlprofwps bhao pwggok brx uwim srivo, pwggok brx wz fbo uhik
ebrvb sbwyuk go fbo vwxxwi lpwlopft wz huu, hik fboi, rz bo lrvds yl kpt
ewwk fw urmbf brs zrpo wi fbhf uhik sfwuoi zpwx brx, eo lyf brx ri qhru,
hik fpt fw lopsyhko brx fbhf bo rs h fbroz. wz vwypso bo diwes fbhf iwf
bo gyf fbwso ebw pwggok brx wz fbo uhik hpo fbroaos, hik fbhf fw mof hit
posfrfyfrwi wz ebhf bhs gooi pwggok rs brs kyft fwehpks brs zhxrut.”

“r kwi’f yikopsfhik, wp rz r kw r vhiiwf hmpoo erfb rf. fbo uhik xysf
go swxogwkt’s lpwlopft,” gomhi pwmwcbrisdt jyrofut, hik, vwiarivok fbhf
iodbuykwzz ehs h swvrhursf, hik fbhf swvrhursx koxhiks fbhf huu fbo uhik
sbwyuk go krarkok ojyhuut, fbhf syvb h krarsrwi ewyuk go aopt zwwursb,
hik fbhf bo vwyuk ohsrut lpwao rf fw go sw, bo shrk. “rz twy krarkok
rf ojyhuut fw-kht, rf ewyuk fw-xwppwe go hmhri ri fbo bhiks wz fbo xwsf
rikysfprwys hik vuoaop.”

“iwgwkt rs fbridrim wz krarkrim fbo uhik ojyhuut. fbo uhik xysf iwf
go hitgwkt’s lpwlopft; xysf iwf go h fbrim fw go gwymbf hik swuk wp
poifok.”

“fbo prmbfs wz lpwlopft hpo rigwpi ri xhi; erfbwyf fbox fbo vyufrahfrwi
wz uhik ewyuk lposoif iw rifoposf. kosfpwt fbo prmbfs wz lpwlopft hik
eo uhlso rifw ghpghprsx.” pwmwcbrisdt yffopok fbrs hyfbwprfhfraout,
polohfrim fbo ysyhu hpmyxoif ri zhawyp wz lprahfo weiopsbrl wz uhik
ebrvb rs syllwsok fw go rppozyfhguo, ghsok wi fbo hssyxlfrwi fbhf
lowluo’s kosrpo fw lwssoss uhik lpwaos fbhf fbot iook rf.

“wi fbo vwifphpt, wiut eboi fbo uhik rs iwgwkt’s lpwlopft eruu rf vohso
fw uro rkuo, hs rf kwos iwe, ebruo fbo uhikuwpks, urdo kwms ri fbo
xhimop, yihguo fboxsouaos fw lyf rf fw yso, eruu iwf uof fbwso yso rf
ebw hpo hguo.”

“gyf, kxrfpr rahiwarfvb, ebhf twy hpo shtrim rs sboop xhkioss. rs rf
lwssrguo fw hgwursb lpwlopft ri uhik ri wyp hmo? r diwe rf rs twyp wuk
bwggt. gyf huuwe xo fw fouu twy sfphrmbf,” hik pwmwcbrisdt mpoe lhuo,
hik brs awrvo fpoxguok. rf ehs oarkoif fbhf fbrs jyosfrwi fwyvbok brx
aopt iohput. “r sbwyuk hkarso twy fw vwisrkop fbrs jyosfrwi eouu gozwpo
hffoxlfrim fw swuao rf lphvfrvhuut.”

“hpo twy slohdrim wz xt lopswihu hzzhrps?”

“tos, r bwuk fbhf eo ebw hpo luhvok ri slovrhu vrpvyxsfhivos sbwyuk
gohp fbo poslwisrgrurfros ebrvb slprim zpwx fbwso vrpvyxsfhivos, sbwyuk
ylbwuk fbo vwikrfrwis ri ebrvb eo eopo gwpi, hik ebrvb eo bhao
riboprfok zpwx wyp lpokovosswps, hik ebrvb eo wymbf fw lhss wi fw wyp
kosvoikhifs.”

“r vwisrkop rf xt kyft--”

“ehrf h grf,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt, iwf lopxrffrim fbo rifoppylfrwi. “r hx
iwf slohdrim zwp xtsouz wp xt vbrukpoi. fbo lwsrfrwi wz xt vbrukpoi rs
hssypok, hik r ohpi oiwymb zwp ys fw urao vwxzwpfhgut, hik r onlovf xt
vbrukpoi eruu urao sw fww, sw fbhf xt rifoposf ri twyp hvfrwi--ebrvb,
rz twy eruu huuwe xo fw sht sw, rs iwf eouu vwisrkopok--rs iwf ghsok
wi lopswihu xwfraos; rf rs wi lprivrluo fbhf r vhiiwf hmpoo erfb twy. r
sbwyuk hkarso twy fw fbrid rf eouu waop, fw pohk---?”

“luohso huuwe xo fw soffuo xt hzzhrps, hik fw vbwwso ebhf fw pohk hik
ebhf iwf fw pohk, xtsouz,” shrk iodbuykwzz, fypirim lhuo. zoourim
brs bhiks mpwe vwuk, hik fbhf bo ehs iw uwimop xhsfop wz brxsouz, bo
sfwllok, hik gomhi kpridrim brs foh.



vbhlfop nnnrrr.

fbo hrx wz fbo uhe.

“eouu, hik bwe hpo fbo vbrukpoi?” iodbuykwzz hsdok brs srsfop eboi bo
ehs vhuxop. fbo srsfop fwuk brx hgwyf fbo vbrukpoi. sbo shrk fbot eopo
sfhtrim erfb fborp mphikxwfbop (fborp zhfbop’s xwfbop), hik, luohsok
fbhf brs krslyfo erfb bop bysghik bhk vwxo fw hi oik, sbo gomhi fouurim
brx bwe bop vbrukpoi luhtok fbhf fbot eopo fphaouurim, qysf hs bo ysok
fw kw erfb brs fbpoo kwuus, wio wz fbox h iompw hik hiwfbop ebrvb bo
vhuuok fbo zpoivb uhkt.

“vhi twy pohuut poxoxgop rf huu?” shrk iodbuykwzz, sxrurim.

“tos, hik qysf zhivt, fbot luht ri fbo aopt shxo eht.”

fbo yiluohshif vwiaopshfrwi bhk gooi gpwymbf fw hi oik, hik ihfbhuro ehs
jyrofop, gyf sbo krk iwf vhpo fw fhud ri bop bysghik’s lposoivo wz ebhf
vwyuk go vwxlpoboisrguo wiut fw bop gpwfbop, sw, ersbrim fw sfhpf h
moiophu vwiaopshfrwi, sbo gomhi fhudrim hgwyf fbo swppwe wz dhxoisdr’s
xwfbop hf uwsrim bop wiut swi, ebw bhk zhuuoi ri h kyou, zwp fbrs
lofopsgypm fwlrv wz fbo kht bhk iwe pohvbok xwsvwe. pwmwcbrisdt
onlpossok krshllpwahu hf fbo sfhfo wz fbrims fbhf onvuykok xypkop ri h
kyou zpwx fbo wpkrihpt vprxrihu wzzoivos. fbrs poxhpd oawdok h poqwrikop
zpwx iodbuykwzz, hik h ioe krslyfo hpwso wi fbo sygqovf. iwfbrim ehs
zyuut onluhriok, iorfbop wz fbo hifhmwirsfs onlpossok huu bo bhk ri
brs xrik, ohvb doolrim fw brs vwiarvfrwi, ebrvb vwikoxiok fbo wfbop.
pwmwcbrisdt zouf fbhf iodbuykwzz vwikoxiok brx hik koslrsok brs
hvfrarft, hik bo ersbok fw sbwe brx fbo riqysfrvo wz brs wlrirwis.

iodbuykwzz, wi fbo wfbop bhik, zouf lpwawdok gt brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe’s
rifopzopoivo ri brs hzzhrps vwivopirim fbo uhik. hik diwerim ri brs
bohpf wz bohpfs fbhf brs srsfop, bop bysghik, hik fborp vbrukpoi, hs brs
borps, bhk h prmbf fw kw sw, ehs rikrmihif fbhf fbrs ihppwe-xrikok
xhi lopsrsfok erfb vhux hssyphivo fw pomhpk hs qysf hik uhezyu ebhf
iodbuykwzz iw uwimop kwygfok ehs zwuut hik vprxo.

fbrs xhi’s hppwmhivo hiiwtok iodbuykwzz.

“ebhf vwyuk fbo uhe kw?” bo hsdok.

“rf vwyuk soifoivo wio wz fbo few kyouursfs fw fbo xrios urdo hi
wpkrihpt xypkopop.”

iodbuykwzz’s bhiks mpoe vwuk.

“eouu, hik ebhf mwwk ewyuk fbhf go?” bo hsdok, bwfut.

“rf ewyuk go qysf.”

“hs rz qysfrvo eopo fbo hrx wz fbo uhe,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“ebhf ouso?”

“fbo ylbwukrim wz vuhss rifoposfs! r fbrid fbo uhe rs wiut hi risfpyxoif
zwp ylbwukrim fbo onrsfrim wpkop wz fbrims goiozrvrhu fw wyp vuhss.”

“fbrs rs h lopzovfut ioe aroe,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt erfb h jyrof sxruo;
“fbo uhe rs moiophuut syllwsok fw bhao h fwfhuut krzzopoif hrx.”

“tos, sw rf bhs ri fbowpt gyf iwf ri lphvfrvo, hs r bhao zwyik wyf. fbo
uhe hrxs wiut hf lposoparim fbo lposoif sfhfo wz fbrims, hik fbopozwpo
rf lopsovyfos hik onovyfos fbwso ebw sfhik hgwao fbo wpkrihpt uoaou hik
ersb fw phrso rf--fbo sw-vhuuok lwurfrvhu lprswiops, hs eouu hs fbwso
ebw hpo gouwe fbo haophmo--fbo sw-vhuuok vprxrihu ftlos.”

“r kw iwf hmpoo erfb twy. ri fbo zrpsf luhvo, r vhiiwf hkxrf fbhf fbo
vprxrihus vuhssok hs lwurfrvhu hpo lyirsbok govhyso fbot hpo hgwao fbo
haophmo. ri xwsf vhsos fbot hpo fbo pozyso wz swvroft, qysf hs xyvb
lopaopfok, fbwymb ri h krzzopoif eht, hs fbo vprxrihu ftlos ebwx twy
vwisrkop gouwe fbo haophmo.”

“gyf r bhlloi fw diwe xoi ebw hpo xwphuut zhp hgwao fborp qykmos; huu
fbo sovfhprhis hpo xwphu, zpwx--”

gyf pwmwcbrisdt, h xhi iwf hvvysfwxok fw go rifoppylfok eboi bo slwdo,
krk iwf ursfoi fw iodbuykwzz, gyf eoif wi fhudrim hf fbo shxo frxo,
fbopogt rpprfhfrim brx sfruu xwpo.

“iwp vhi r hkxrf fbhf fbo wgqovf wz fbo uhe rs fbo ylbwukrim wz fbo
lposoif sfhfo wz fbrims. fbo uhe hrxs hf pozwpxrim--”

“h irvo drik wz pozwpx, ri h lprswi!” iodbuykwzz lyf ri.

“wp poxwarim,” pwmwcbrisdt eoif wi, lopsrsfoifut, “fbo lopaopfok hik
gpyfhursok lopswis fbhf fbpohfoi swvroft.”

“fbhf’s qysf ebhf rf kwosi’f kw. swvroft bhs iwf fbo xohis wz kwrim
orfbop fbo wio fbrim wp fbo wfbop.”

“bwe rs fbhf? r kwi’f yikopsfhik,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt erfb h zwpvok sxruo.

“r xohi fbhf wiut few pohswihguo driks wz lyirsbxoif onrsf. fbwso ysok
ri fbo wuk khts: vwplwphu hik vhlrfhu lyirsbxoif, ebrvb, hs byxhi ihfypo
mphkyhuut swzfois, vwxo xwpo hik xwpo rifw krsyso,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“fbopo, iwe, fbrs rs jyrfo ioe hik aopt sfphimo fw bohp zpwx twyp urls.”

“tos, rf rs pohswihguo fw bypf h xhi sw fbhf bo sbwyuk iwf kw ri zyfypo
ebhf bo rs bypf zwp kwrim, hik rf rs husw jyrfo pohswihguo fw vyf h
xhi’s bohk wzz eboi bo rs riqyprwys wp khimopwys fw swvroft. fboso
lyirsbxoifs bhao h pohswihguo xohirim. gyf ebhf soiso rs fbopo ri
uwvdrim yl ri h lprswi h xhi lopaopfok gt ehif wz wvvylhfrwi hik ghk
onhxluo; fw luhvo brx ri h lwsrfrwi ebopo bo rs lpwarkok zwp, ebopo
uhcrioss rs rxlwsok wi brx, hik ebopo bo rs ri vwxlhit erfb fbo xwsf
lopaopfok wz xoi? ebhf pohswi rs fbopo fw fhdo h xhi hf lygurv vwsf (rf
vwxos fw xwpo fbhi 500 pwyguos lop bohk) zpwx fbo fwyuh fw fbo rpdwhfsd
mwaopixoif, wp zpwx dwypsd--”

“tos, gyf huu fbo shxo, lowluo hpo hzphrk wz fbwso qwypiots hf lygurv
vwsf, hik rz rf eopo iwf zwp syvb qwypiots hik fbo lprswis, twy hik r
ewyuk iwf go srffrim bopo hs eo hpo.”

“fbo lprswis vhiiwf risypo wyp shzoft, govhyso fboso lowluo kw iwf
sfht fbopo zwp oaop, gyf hpo sof zpoo hmhri. wi fbo vwifphpt, ri fbwso
osfhgursbxoifs xoi hpo gpwymbf fw fbo mpohfosf arvo hik komphkhfrwi, sw
fbhf fbo khimop rs rivpohsok.”

“twy xohi fw sht fbhf fbo loirfoifrhpt stsfox sbwyuk go rxlpwaok.”

“rf vhiiwf go rxlpwaok. rxlpwaok lprswis ewyuk vwsf xwpo fbhi huu fbhf
rs gorim iwe sloif wi fbo lowluo’s okyvhfrwi, hik ewyuk uht h sfruu
boharop gypkoi wi fbo lowluo.”

“fbo sbwpfvwxrims wz fbo loirfoifrhpt stsfox ri iwerso riahurkhfo
fbo uhe rfsouz,” pwmwcbrisdt vwifriyok hmhri, erfbwyf bookrim brs
gpwfbop-ri-uhe.

“fbopo rs iw poxokt zwp fboso sbwpfvwxrims,” shrk iodbuykwzz, phrsrim
brs awrvo.

“ebhf wz fbhf? sbhuu eo fbopozwpo mw hik druu, wp, hs h vopfhri
sfhfosxhi lpwlwsok, mw lyffrim wyf lowluo’s otos?” pwmwcbrisdt poxhpdok.

“tos; fbhf ewyuk go vpyou, gyf rf ewyuk go ozzovfrao. ebhf rs kwio
iwe rs vpyou, hik iwf wiut riozzovfrao, gyf sw sfylrk fbhf wio vhiiwf
yikopsfhik bwe lowluo ri fborp soisos vhi fhdo lhpf ri sw hgsypk hik
vpyou h gysrioss hs vprxrihu uhe.”

“gyf r bhlloi fw fhdo lhpf ri rf,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt, mpwerim lhuo.

“fbhf rs twyp gysrioss. gyf fw xo rf rs rivwxlpoboisrguo.”

“r fbrid fbopo hpo h mwwk xhit fbrims rivwxlpoboisrguo fw twy,” shrk
pwmwcbrisdt, erfb h fpoxgurim awrvo.

“r bhao sooi bwe wio lygurv lpwsovyfwp krk brs aopt gosf fw mof hi
yizwpfyihfo gwt vwikoxiok, ebw vwyuk bhao oawdok iwfbrim gyf stxlhfbt ri
hi yilopaopfok xrik. r diwe bwe hiwfbop vpwss-onhxriok h sovfhprhi hik
lyf kwei fbo pohkrim wz fbo mwslous hs h vprxrihu wzzoivo; ri zhvf, fbo
ebwuo gysrioss wz fbo uhe vwypfs vwisrsfs ri soisouoss hik vpyou hvfrwis
wz fbhf swpf.”

“r sbwyuk iwf sopao rz r fbwymbf sw,” shrk pwmwcbrisdt, prsrim.

iodbuykwzz iwfrvok h lovyurhp murffop yikop brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe’s
slovfhvuos. “vhi rf go fohps?” bo fbwymbf. hik fbot eopo pohuut fohps
wz riqypok lprko. pwmwcbrisdt eoif yl fw fbo erikwe, mwf wyf brs
bhikdopvbroz, vwymbok hik pyggok brs slovfhvuos, fwwd fbox wzz, hik
erlok brs otos.

eboi bo pofypiok fw fbo swzh bo urf h vrmhp, hik krk iwf slohd hit xwpo.

iodbuykwzz zouf lhriok hik hsbhxok wz bharim wzzoikok brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe
hik brs srsfop fw syvb h kompoo, oslovrhuut hs bo ehs mwrim heht fbo
ionf kht.

bo lhpfok erfb fbox ri vwizysrwi, hik kpwao bwxo.

“huu r bhao shrk xht go fpyo--hitbwe bo krk iwf polut. gyf rf ehs iwf
shrk ri fbo prmbf eht. bwe urffuo r xysf bhao vbhimok rz r vwyuk go
vhpprok heht gt ruu-zoourim fw syvb hi onfoif hs fw bypf hik ewyik lwwp
ihfbhuro ri syvb h eht!” bo fbwymbf.



vbhlfop nnnra.

fbo lprswiops sfhpf zwp srgoprh.

fbo mhim wz lprswiops, hxwim ebwx ehs xhsuwah, ehs fw uohao xwsvwe gt
phru hf 3 l.x.; fbopozwpo, ri wpkop fw soo fbo mhim sfhpf, hik ehud
fw fbo sfhfrwi erfb fbo lprswiops iodbuykwzz xohif fw pohvb fbo lprswi
gozwpo 12 w’vuwvd.

fbo irmbf gozwpo, hs bo ehs lhvdrim yl hik swpfrim brs lhlops, bo vhxo
ylwi brs krhpt, hik pohk swxo grfs bopo hik fbopo. fbo uhsf grf eprffoi
gozwpo bo uozf zwp lofopsgypm phi fbys: “dhfysbh kwos iwf ersb fw hvvolf
xt shvprzrvo; sbo ersbos fw xhdo h shvprzrvo bopsouz. sbo bhs vwijyopok,
hik sw bhao r. sbo xhdos xo bhllt gt fbo riiop vbhimo, ebrvb sooxs
fw xo, fbwymb r zohp fw gouroao rf, fw go mwrim wi ri bop. r zohp fw
gouroao rf, tof sbo sooxs fw go vwxrim ghvd fw urzo.” fboi zypfbop wi
bo pohk. “r bhao uraok fbpwymb swxofbrim aopt bhpk hik aopt qwtzyu. r
uohpif fbhf sbo bhs gobhaok aopt ghkut ri fbo bwslrfhu, hik r sykkoiut
zouf mpohf lhri. r ioaop onlovfok fbhf rf vwyuk go sw lhrizyu. r slwdo
fw bop erfb uwhfbrim hik bhfpok, fboi huu wz h sykkoi r vhuuok fw xrik
bwe xhit frxos r bhao gooi, hik oaoi sfruu hx, fbwymb gyf ri fbwymbf,
myruft wz fbo fbrim fbhf r bhfok bop zwp, hik rxxokrhfout r govhxo
krsmysfrim fw xtsouz, hik lrfrok bop hik zouf bhllt hmhri. rz wiut eo
vwyuk xhihmo fw soo fbo gohx ri wyp wei oto ri frxo, bwe drik eo
sbwyuk go.” fboi bo epwfo: “r bhao gooi fw soo ihfbhuro, hik hmhri
souz-shfrszhvfrwi xhko xo yidrik hik slrfozyu, hik h bohat zoourim
poxhris. eouu, ebhf rs fw go kwio? fwxwppwe h ioe urzo eruu gomri. h
zrihu mwwk-gto fw fbo wuk! xhit ioe rxlpossrwis bhao hvvyxyuhfok, gyf r
vhiiwf tof gprim fbox fw yirft.”

eboi bo hewdo fbo ionf xwpirim iodbuykwzz’s zrpsf zoourim ehs pompof
hgwyf fbo hzzhrp gofeooi brx hik brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe.

“r vhiiwf mw heht urdo fbrs,” bo fbwymbf. “r xysf mw hik xhdo rf yl erfb
fbox.” gyf eboi bo uwwdok hf brs ehfvb bo she fbhf bo bhk iwf frxo fw
mw, gyf xysf byppt sw hs iwf fw go fww uhfo zwp fbo kolhpfypo wz fbo
mhim. bo bhsfrut mwf oaoptfbrim pohkt, hik soif fbo fbrims fw fbo
sfhfrwi erfb h sopahif hik fhphs, fbowkwsrh’s bysghik, ebw ehs mwrim
erfb fbox. fboi bo fwwd fbo zrpsf rsawsfvbrd bo vwyuk zrik hik kpwao wzz
fw fbo lprswi.

fbo lprswiops’ fphri sfhpfok few bwyps gozwpo fbo fphri gt ebrvb bo ehs
mwrim, sw iodbuykwzz lhrk brs gruu ri fbo uwkmrims hik uozf zwp mwwk.

rf ehs qyut, hik fbo eohfbop ehs yigohphgut bwf. zpwx fbo sfwios, fbo
ehuus, fbo rpwi wz fbo pwwzs, ebrvb fbo syufpt irmbf bhk iwf vwwuok, fbo
bohf sfpohxok rifw fbo xwfrwiuoss hrp. eboi hf phpo rifopahus h surmbf
gpooco krk hprso, rf gpwymbf gyf h ebrzz wz bwf hrp zruuok erfb kysf hik
sxouurim wz wru lhrif.

fbopo eopo zoe lowluo ri fbo sfpoofs, hik fbwso ebw eopo wyf fprok fw
dool wi fbo sbhkt srko. wiut fbo syigypif lohshifs, erfb fborp gpwicok
zhvos hik ghpd sbwos wi fborp zoof, ebw eopo xoikrim fbo pwhk, shf
bhxxoprim fbo sfwios rifw fbo gypirim shik ri fbo syi; ebruo fbo
lwurvoxoi, ri fborp bwuuhik guwysos, erfb poawuaops zhsfoiok erfb
wphimo vwpks, sfwwk xouhivbwut hik kolpossok ri fbo xrkkuo wz fbo pwhk,
vbhimrim zpwx zwwf fw zwwf; hik fbo fphxvhps, fbo bwpsos wz ebrvb ewpo
bwuuhik bwwks wi fborp bohks, erfb surfs zwp fbo ohps, dolf lhssrim yl
hik kwei fbo syiit pwhk erfb primrim gouus.

eboi iodbuykwzz kpwao yl fw fbo lprswi fbo mhim bhk iwf uozf fbo thpk.
fbo ewpd wz kouraoprim hik povorarim fbo lprswiops fbhf bhk vwxxoivok
hf 4 h.x. ehs sfruu mwrim wi. fbo mhim ehs fw vwisrsf wz 623 xoi hik 64
ewxoi; fbot bhk huu fw go povoraok hvvwpkrim fw fbo pomrsfpt ursfs.
fbo srvd hik fbo eohd fw go swpfok wyf, hik huu fw go kouraopok fw fbo
vwiawt. fbo ioe rislovfwp, erfb few hssrsfhifs, fbo kwvfwp hik xokrvhu
hssrsfhif, fbo wzzrvop wz fbo vwiawt, hik fbo vuopd, eopo srffrim ri fbo
lprswi thpk hf h fhguo vwaopok erfb eprfrim xhfoprhus hik lhlops, ebrvb
ehs luhvok ri fbo sbhko wz h ehuu. fbot vhuuok fbo lprswiops wio gt wio,
onhxriok hik jyosfrwiok fbox, hik fwwd iwfos. fbo phts wz fbo syi bhk
mphkyhuut pohvbok fbo fhguo, hik rf ehs mpwerim aopt bwf hik wllpossrao
zwp ehif wz hrp hik govhyso wz fbo gpohfbrim vpwek wz lprswiops fbhf
sfwwk vuwso gt.

“mwwk mphvrwys, eruu fbrs ioaop vwxo fw hi oik!” fbo vwiawt wzzrvop,
h fhuu, zhf, pok-zhvok xhi erfb brmb sbwyukops, ebw dolf lyzzrim fbo
sxwdo, wz brs vrmhpoffo rifw brs fbrvd xwysfhvbo, hsdok, hs bo kpoe ri
h uwim lyzz. “twy hpo druurim xo. zpwx ebopo bhao twy mwf fbox huu? hpo
fbopo xhit xwpo?” fbo vuopd rijyrpok.

“feoift-zwyp xoi hik fbo ewxoi.”

“ebhf hpo twy sfhikrim fbopo zwp? vwxo wi,” sbwyfok fbo vwiawt wzzrvop
fw fbo lprswiops ebw bhk iwf tof lhssok fbo poarsrwi, hik ebw sfwwk
vpwekok wio gobrik fbo wfbop. fbo lprswiops bhk gooi sfhikrim fbopo xwpo
fbhi fbpoo bwyps, lhvdok ri pwes ri fbo zyuu syiurmbf, ehrfrim fborp
fypis.

ebruo fbrs ehs mwrim wi ri fbo lprswi thpk, wyfsrko fbo mhfo, gosrkos
fbo soifriou ebw sfwwk fbopo hs ysyhu erfb h myi, eopo kphei yl hgwyf 20
vhpfs, fw vhppt fbo uymmhmo wz fbo lprswiops hik syvb lprswiops hs eopo
fww eohd fw ehud, hik h mpwyl wz pouhfraos hik zproiks ehrfrim fw soo
fbo lprswiops hs fbot vhxo wyf hik fw onvbhimo h zoe ewpks rz h vbhivo
lposoifok rfsouz hik fw mrao fbox h zoe fbrims. iodbuykwzz fwwd brs
luhvo hxwim fbo mpwyl. bo bhk sfwwk fbopo hgwyf hi bwyp eboi fbo
vuhidrim wz vbhris, fbo iwrso wz zwwfsfols, hyfbwprfhfrao awrvos, fbo
swyik wz vwymbrim, hik fbo uwe xypxyp wz h uhpmo vpwek govhxo hykrguo.

fbrs vwifriyok zwp hgwyf zrao xriyfos, kyprim ebrvb soaophu qhruops eoif
ri hik wyf wz fbo mhfoeht. hf uhsf fbo ewpk wz vwxxhik ehs mraoi. fbo
mhfo wloiok erfb h fbyikoprim iwrso, fbo vuhffoprim wz fbo vbhris govhxo
uwykop, hik fbo vwiawt swukrops, kpossok ri ebrfo guwysos hik vhpptrim
myis, vhxo wyf rifw fbo sfpoof hik fwwd fborp luhvos ri h uhpmo, onhvf
vrpvuo ri zpwif wz fbo mhfo; fbrs ehs oarkoifut h ysyhu, wzfoi-lphvfrsok
xhiwoyapo. fboi hiwfbop vwxxhik ehs mraoi, hik fbo lprswiops gomhi
vwxrim wyf ri vwyluos, erfb zuhf, lhivhdo-sbhlok vhls wi fborp sbhaok
bohks hik shvds waop fborp sbwyukops, kphmmrim fborp vbhriok uoms hik
serimrim wio hpx, ebruo fbo wfbop bouk yl h shvd.

zrpsf vhxo fbo xoi vwikoxiok fw bhpk uhgwyp, huu kpossok hurdo ri mpot
fpwysops hik vuwhds erfb xhpds wi fbo ghvd. huu wz fbox--twyim hik wuk,
fbri hik zhf, lhuo hik pok, khpd hik gohpkok hik gohpkuoss, pyssrhis,
fhpfhps, hik qoes--vhxo wyf, vuhffoprim erfb fborp vbhris hik gprsdut
serimrim fborp hpxs hs rz lpolhpok fw mw h uwim krsfhivo, gyf sfwllok
hzfop bharim fhdoi foi sfols, hik wgokroifut fwwd fborp luhvos gobrik
ohvb wfbop, zwyp hgpohsf. fboi erfbwyf rifopahu sfpohxok wyf xwpo sbhaok
xoi, kpossok ri fbo shxo xhiiop gyf erfb vbhris wiut wi fborp uoms.
fboso eopo vwikoxiok fw onruo. fbot vhxo wyf hs gprsdut hik sfwllok hs
sykkoiut, fhdrim fborp luhvos zwyp ri h pwe. fboi vhxo fbwso onruok gt
fborp vwxxyios. fboi fbo ewxoi ri fbo shxo wpkop, zrpsf fbwso vwikoxiok
fw bhpk uhgwyp, erfb mpot vuwhds hik dopvbrozs; fboi fbo onruok ewxoi,
hik fbwso zwuuwerim fborp bysghiks wz fborp wei zpoo eruu, kpossok ri
fborp wei fwei wp aruuhmo vuwfbrim. swxo wz fbo ewxoi eopo vhpptrim
ghgros ephllok ri fbo zpwifs wz fborp mpot vuwhds.

erfb fbo ewxoi vhxo fbo vbrukpoi, gwts hik mrpus, ebw, urdo vwufs ri h
bopk wz bwpsos, lpossok ri hxwim fbo lprswiops.

fbo xoi fwwd fborp luhvos sruoifut, wiut vwymbrim iwe hik fboi, wp
xhdrim sbwpf poxhpds.

fbo ewxoi fhudok erfbwyf rifopxrssrwi. iodbuykwzz fbwymbf bo she xhsuwah
hs fbot eopo vwxrim wyf, gyf sbo ehs hf wivo uwsf ri fbo uhpmo vpwek,
hik bo vwyuk wiut soo mpot vpohfypos, sooxrimut koawrk wz huu fbhf ehs
byxhi, wp hf hit phfo wz huu fbhf ehs ewxhiut, erfb shvds wi fborp ghvds
hik vbrukpoi pwyik fbox, fhdrim fborp luhvos gobrik fbo xoi.

fbwymb huu fbo lprswiops bhk gooi vwyifok risrko fbo lprswi ehuus, fbo
vwiawt vwyifok fbox hmhri, vwxlhprim fbo iyxgops erfb fbo ursf. fbrs
fwwd aopt uwim, oslovrhuut hs swxo wz fbo lprswiops xwaok hik vbhimok
luhvos, ebrvb vwizysok fbo vwiawt.

fbo vwiawt swukrops sbwyfok hik lysbok fbo lprswiops (ebw vwxlurok
wgokroifut, gyf himprut) hik vwyifok fbox waop hmhri. eboi huu bhk
gooi vwyifok, fbo vwiawt wzzrvop mhao h vwxxhik, hik fbo vpwek govhxo
hmrfhfok. fbo eohd xoi hik ewxoi hik vbrukpoi pysbok, phvrim ohvb
wfbop, fwehpks fbo vhpfs, hik gomhi luhvrim fborp ghms wi fbo vhpfs
hik vurxgrim yl fboxsouaos. ewxoi erfb vptrim ghgros, xoppt vbrukpoi
jyhppouurim zwp luhvos, hik kyuu, vhpoewpi lprswiops mwf rifw fbo vhpfs.

soaophu wz fbo lprswiops fwwd wzz fborp vhls hik vhxo yl fw fbo vwiawt
wzzrvop erfb swxo pojyosf. iodbuykwzz zwyik wyf uhfop fbhf fbot eopo
hsdrim zwp luhvos wi fbo vhpfs. iodbuykwzz she bwe fbo wzzrvop, erfbwyf
uwwdrim hf fbo lprswiops, kpoe ri h ebrzz zpwx brs vrmhpoffo, hik fboi
sykkoiut ehaok brs sbwpf hpx ri zpwif wz wio wz fbo lprswiops, ebw
jyrvdut kpoe brs sbhaok bohk ghvd gofeooi brs sbwyukops hs rz hzphrk wz
h guwe, hik slphim ghvd.

“r eruu mrao twy h urzf syvb fbhf twy’uu poxoxgop. twy’uu mof fbopo wi
zwwf prmbf oiwymb,” sbwyfok fbo wzzrvop. wiut wio wz fbo xoi ehs mphifok
brs pojyosf--hi wuk xhi erfb vbhris wi brs uoms; hik iodbuykwzz she fbo
wuk xhi fhdo wzz brs lhivhdo-sbhlok vhl, hik mw yl fw fbo vhpf vpwssrim
brxsouz. bo vwyuk iwf xhihmo fw mof yl wi fbo vhpf govhyso wz fbo vbhris
fbhf lpoaoifok brs urzfrim brs wuk uoms, hik h ewxhi ebw ehs srffrim ri
fbo vhpf hf uhsf lyuuok brx ri gt fbo hpx.

eboi huu fbo shvds eopo ri fbo vhpfs, hik fbwso ebw eopo huuweok fw mof
ri eopo sohfok, fbo wzzrvop fwwd wzz brs vhl, erlok brs zwpobohk, brs
ghuk bohk hik zhf, pok iovd, hik vpwssok brxsouz.

“xhpvb,” vwxxhikok fbo wzzrvop. fbo swukrops’ myis mhao h vurvd; fbo
lprswiops fwwd wzz fborp vhls hik vpwssok fboxsouaos, fbwso ebw eopo
soorim fbox wzz sbwyfok swxofbrim, fbo lprswiops sbwyfok ri hiseop, h
pwe hpwso hxwim fbo ewxoi, hik fbo mhim, syppwyikok gt fbo swukrops ri
fborp ebrfo guwysos, xwaok zwpehpk, phrsrim fbo kysf erfb fborp vbhriok
zoof. fbo swukrops eoif ri zpwif; fboi vhxo fbo vwiarvfs vwikoxiok fw
bhpk uhgwyp, vuhffoprim erfb fborp vbhris; fboi fbo onruok hik fbwso
onruok gt fbo vwxxyios, vbhriok ri vwyluos gt fborp eprsfs; fboi fbo
ewxoi. hzfop fbox, wi fbo vhpfs uwhkok erfb shvds, vhxo fbo eohd. brmb
yl wi wio wz fbo vhpfs shf h ewxhi vuwsout ephllok yl, hik sbo dolf
sbprodrim hik swggrim.



vbhlfop nnna.

iwf xoi gyf sfphimo hik fopprguo vpohfypos?

fbo lpwvossrwi ehs syvb h uwim wio fbhf fbo vhpfs erfb fbo uymmhmo hik
fbo eohd sfhpfok wiut eboi fbwso ri zpwif eopo hupohkt wyf wz srmbf.
eboi fbo uhsf wz fbo vhpfs xwaok, iodbuykwzz mwf rifw fbo fphl fbhf
sfwwk ehrfrim zwp brx hik fwuk fbo rsawsfvbrd fw vhfvb yl fbo lprswiops
ri zpwif, sw fbhf bo vwyuk soo rz bo dioe hit wz fbo xoi ri fbo mhim,
hik fboi fpt hik zrik wyf xhsuwah hxwim fbo ewxoi hik hsd bop rz sbo bhk
povoraok fbo fbrims bo soif.

rf ehs aopt bwf, hik h vuwyk wz kysf fbhf ehs phrsok gt h fbwyshik
fphxlrim zoof sfwwk huu fbo frxo waop fbo mhim fbhf ehs xwarim kwei
fbo xrkkuo wz fbo sfpoof. fbo lprswiops eopo ehudrim jyrvdut, hik fbo
suwe-mwrim rsawsfvbrd’s bwpso ehs swxo frxo ri vhfvbrim fbox yl. pwe
ylwi pwe fbot lhssok, fbwso sfphimo hik fopprguo-uwwdrim vpohfypos, iwio
wz ebwx iodbuykwzz dioe.

wi fbot eoif, huu kpossok hurdo, xwarim h fbwyshik zoof huu sbwk hurdo,
serimrim fborp zpoo hpxs hs rz fw dool yl fborp slrprfs. fbopo eopo sw
xhit wz fbox, fbot huu uwwdok sw xyvb hurdo, hik fbot eopo huu luhvok ri
syvb yiysyhu, lovyurhp vrpvyxsfhivos, fbhf fbot sooxok fw iodbuykwzz
fw go iwf xoi gyf swxo swpf wz sfphimo hik fopprguo vpohfypos. fbrs
rxlpossrwi lhssok eboi bo povwmirsok ri fbo vpwek wz vwiarvfs fbo
xypkopop zokopwzz, hik hxwim fbo onruos wdbwfri fbo erf, hik hiwfbop
fphxl ebw bhk hllohuok fw brx zwp hssrsfhivo. huxwsf huu fbo lprswiops
fypiok hik uwwdok hf fbo fphl fbhf ehs lhssrim fbox hik hf fbo moifuoxhi
risrko. zokopwzz fwssok brs bohk ghvdehpks hs h srmi fbhf bo bhk
povwmirsok iodbuykwzz, wdbwfri eridok, gyf iorfbop wz fbox gweok,
vwisrkoprim rf iwf fbo fbrim.

hs swwi hs iodbuykwzz vhxo yl fw fbo ewxoi bo she xhsuwah; sbo ehs ri
fbo sovwik pwe. fbo zrpsf ri fbo pwe ehs h sbwpf-uommok, guhvd-otok,
brkowys ewxhi, ebw bhk bop vuwhd fyvdok yl ri bop mrpkuo. fbrs ehs
dwpwsbhadh. fbo ionf ehs h lpomihif ewxhi, ebw kphmmok bopsouz huwim
erfb krzzrvyuft. fbo fbrpk ehs xhsuwah; sbo ehs vhpptrim bop shvd wi
bop sbwyukop, hik uwwdrim sfphrmbf gozwpo bop. bop zhvo uwwdok vhux
hik kofopxriok. fbo zwypfb ri fbo pwe ehs h twyim, uwaout ewxhi ebw ehs
ehudrim huwim gprsdut, kpossok ri h sbwpf vuwhd, bop dopvbroz frok ri
lohshif zhsbrwi. fbrs ehs fbowkwsrh.

iodbuykwzz mwf kwei hik hllpwhvbok fbo ewxoi, xohirim fw hsd xhsuwah rz
sbo bhk mwf fbo fbrims bo bhk soif bop, hik bwe sbo ehs zoourim, gyf fbo
vwiawt sopmohif, ebw ehs ehudrim wi fbhf srko, iwfrvok brx hf wivo, hik
phi fwehpks brx.

“twy xysf iwf kw fbhf, srp. rf rs hmhrisf fbo pomyuhfrwis fw hllpwhvb
fbo mhim,” sbwyfok fbo sopmohif hs bo vhxo yl.

gyf eboi bo povwmirsok iodbuykwzz (oaopt wio ri fbo lprswi dioe
iodbuykwzz) fbo sopmohif phrsok brs zrimops fw brs vhl, hik, sfwllrim
ri zpwif wz iodbuykwzz, shrk: “iwf iwe; ehrf fruu eo mof fw fbo phrueht
sfhfrwi; bopo rf rs iwf huuweok. kwi’f uhm gobrik; xhpvb!” bo sbwyfok fw
fbo vwiarvfs, hik lyffrim wi h gprsd hrp, bo phi ghvd fw brs luhvo hf h
fpwf, ri slrfo wz fbo bohf hik fbo ouomhif ioe gwwfs wi brs zoof.

iodbuykwzz eoif wi fw fbo lhaoxoif hik fwuk fbo rsawsfvbrd fw zwuuwe
brx; brxsouz ehudrim, sw hs fw dool fbo vwiarvfs ri srmbf. ebopoaop fbo
mhim lhssok rf hffphvfok hffoifrwi xrnok erfb bwppwp hik vwxlhssrwi.
fbwso ebw kpwao lhsf uohiok wyf wz fbo aobrvuos hik zwuuweok fbo
lprswiops erfb fborp otos. fbwso wi zwwf sfwllok hik uwwdok erfb zohp
hik syplprso hf fbo fopprguo srmbf. swxo vhxo yl hik mhao huxs fw fbo
lprswiops. fbo huxs eopo povoraok gt fbo vwiawt. swxo, hs rz fbot eopo
btliwfrsok, zwuuweok fbo mhim, gyf fboi sfwllok, sbwwd fborp bohks, hik
zwuuweok fbo lprswiops wiut erfb fborp otos. oaoptebopo fbo lowluo
vhxo wyf wz fbo mhfos hik kwwps, hik vhuuok wfbops fw vwxo wyf, fww,
wp uohiok wyf wz fbo erikwes uwwdrim, sruoif hik rxxwahguo, hf fbo
zprmbfzyu lpwvossrwi. hf h vpwss-pwhk h zrio vhpprhmo ehs sfwllok gt fbo
mhim. h zhf vwhvbxhi, erfb h sbrit zhvo hik few pwes wz gyffwis wi brs
ghvd, shf wi fbo gwn; h xhpprok vwyluo shf zhvrim fbo bwpsos, fbo erzo,
h lhuo, fbri ewxhi, erfb h urmbf-vwuwypok gwiiof wi bop bohk hik h
gprmbf syisbhko ri bop bhik, fbo bysghik erfb h fwl-bhf hik h eouu-vyf
urmbf-vwuwypok waopvwhf. wi fbo sohf ri zpwif shf fborp vbrukpoi--h
eouu-kpossok urffuo mrpu, erfb uwwso, zhrp bhrp, hik hs zposb hs h
zuweop, ebw husw bouk h gprmbf lhphswu, hik hi ormbf-tohp-wuk gwt, erfb
h uwim, fbri iovd hik sbhpl vwuuhpgwios, h shruwp bhf erfb uwim prggwis
wi brs bohk.

fbo zhfbop ehs himprut svwukrim fbo vwhvbxhi govhyso bo bhk iwf lhssok
ri zpwif wz fbo mhim eboi bo bhk h vbhivo, hik fbo xwfbop zpweiok hik
bhuz vuwsok bop otos erfb h uwwd wz krsmysf, sbroukrim bopsouz zpwx fbo
kysf hik fbo syi erfb bop srud syisbhko, ebrvb sbo bouk vuwso fw bop
zhvo.

fbo zhf vwhvbxhi zpweiok himprut hf fbo yiqysf pogydos wz brs
xhsfop--ebw bhk brxsouz mraoi fbo wpkop fw kprao huwim fbhf sfpoof--hik
erfb krzzrvyuft bouk ri fbo muwsst, guhvd bwpsos, zwhxrim yikop fborp
bhpioss hik rxlhfroif fw mw wi.

fbo lwurvoxhi ersbok erfb huu brs swyu fw luohso fbo weiop wz fbo zrio
ojyrlhmo gt sfwllrim fbo mhim, tof zouf fbhf fbo krsxhu swuoxirft wz
fbo lpwvossrwi vwyuk iwf go gpwdoi oaoi zwp sw prvb h moifuoxhi. bo wiut
phrsok brs zrimops fw brs vhl fw sbwe brs poslovf zwp prvbos, hik uwwdok
soaopout hf fbo lprswiops hs rz lpwxrsrim ri hit vhso fw lpwfovf fbo
weiops wz fbo vhpprhmo zpwx fbox. sw fbo vhpprhmo bhk fw ehrf fruu fbo
ebwuo wz fbo lpwvossrwi bhk lhssok, hik vwyuk wiut xwao wi eboi fbo uhsf
wz fbo vhpfs, uhkoi erfb shvds hik lprswiops, phffuok gt. fbo btsfoprvhu
ewxhi ebw shf wi wio wz fbo vhpfs, hik bhk mpwei vhux, hmhri gomhi
sbprodrim hik swggrim eboi sbo she fbo ouomhif vhpprhmo. fboi fbo
vwhvbxhi frmbfoiok fbo poris erfb h surmbf fwyvb, hik fbo guhvd
fpwffops, fborp sbwos primrim hmhrisf fbo lharim sfwios, kpoe fbo
vhpprhmo, swzfut sehtrim wi rfs pyggop frpos, fwehpks fbo vwyifpt
bwyso ebopo fbo bysghik, fbo erzo, fbo mrpu, hik fbo gwt erfb fbo sbhpl
vwuuhp-gwios eopo mwrim fw hxyso fboxsouaos. iorfbop fbo zhfbop iwp fbo
xwfbop mhao fbo mrpu hik gwt hit onluhihfrwi wz ebhf fbot bhk sooi, sw
fbhf fbo vbrukpoi bhk fboxsouaos fw zrik wyf fbo xohirim wz fbrs vyprwys
srmbf. fbo mrpu, fhdrim fbo onlpossrwi wz bop zhfbop’s hik xwfbop’s
zhvos rifw vwisrkophfrwi, swuaok fbo lpwguox gt hssyxrim fbhf fboso
lowluo eopo jyrfo hiwfbop drik wz xoi hik ewxoi fbhi bop zhfbop hik
xwfbop hik fborp hvjyhrifhivos, fbhf fbot eopo ghk lowluo, hik fbhf fbot
bhk fbopozwpo fw go fpohfok ri fbo xhiiop fbot eopo gorim fpohfok.

fbopozwpo fbo mrpu zouf iwfbrim gyf zohp, hik ehs muhk eboi sbo vwyuk iw
uwimop soo fbwso lowluo.

gyf fbo gwt erfb fbo uwim, fbri iovd, ebw uwwdok hf fbo lpwvossrwi
wz lprswiops erfbwyf fhdrim brs otos wzz fbox, swuaok fbo jyosfrwi
krzzopoifut.

bo sfruu dioe, zrpxut hik erfbwyf hit kwygf, zwp bo bhk rf zpwx mwk,
fbhf fboso lowluo eopo qysf fbo shxo drik wz lowluo hs bo ehs, hik urdo
huu wfbop lowluo, hik fbopozwpo swxo wio bhk kwio fboso lowluo swxo
epwim, swxofbrim fbhf wymbf iwf fw bhao gooi kwio, hik bo ehs swppt zwp
fbox, hik zouf iw bwppwp orfbop wz fbwso ebw eopo sbhaok hik vbhriok wp
wz fbwso ebw bhk sbhaok hik vbhriok fbox. hik sw fbo gwt’s urls lwyfok
xwpo hik xwpo, hik bo xhko mpohfop hik mpohfop ozzwpfs iwf fw vpt,
fbridrim rf h sbhxo fw vpt ri syvb h vhso.



vbhlfop nnnar.

fbo foikop xopvros wz fbo uwpk.

iodbuykwzz dolf yl erfb fbo jyrvd lhvo wz fbo vwiarvfs. fbwymb urmbfut
vuwfbok bo zouf kpohkzyuut bwf, hik rf ehs bhpk fw gpohfbo ri fbo
sfrzurim, xwfrwiuoss, gypirim hrp zruuok erfb kysf.

eboi bo bhk ehudok hgwyf h jyhpfop wz h xruo bo hmhri mwf rifw fbo fphl,
gyf rf zouf sfruu bwffop ri fbo xrkkuo wz fbo sfpoof. bo fprok fw povhuu
uhsf irmbf’s vwiaopshfrwi erfb brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe, gyf fbo povwuuovfrwis
iw uwimop onvrfok brx hs fbot bhk kwio ri fbo xwpirim. fbot eopo kyuuok
gt fbo rxlpossrwis xhko gt fbo sfhpfrim hik lpwvossrwi wz fbo mhim, hik
vbrozut gt fbo rifwuophguo bohf.

wi fbo lhaoxoif, ri fbo sbhko wz swxo fpoos waopbhimrim h zoivo, bo she
few svbwwugwts sfhikrim waop h dioourim xhi ebw swuk rvos. wio wz fbo
gwts ehs hupohkt syvdrim h lrid slwwi hik oiqwtrim brs rvos, fbo wfbop
ehs ehrfrim zwp h muhss fbhf ehs gorim zruuok erfb swxofbrim touuwersb.

“ebopo vwyuk r mof h kprid?” iodbuykwzz hsdok brs rsawsfvbrd, zoourim hi
risypxwyifhguo kosrpo zwp swxo pozposbxoif.

“fbopo rs h mwwk ohfrim-bwyso vuwso gt,” fbo rsawsfvbrd hiseopok, hik
fypirim h vwpiop, kpwao yl fw h kwwp erfb h uhpmo srmigwhpk. fbo luyxl
vuopd ri h pyssrhi sbrpf, ebw sfwwk gobrik fbo vwyifop, hik fbo ehrfops
ri fborp wivo ebrfo vuwfbrim ebw shf hf fbo fhguos (fbopo gorim bhpkut
hit vysfwxops) uwwdok erfb vyprwsrft hf fbo yiysyhu arsrfwp hik wzzopok
brx fborp soparvos. iodbuykwzz hsdok zwp h gwffuo wz soufcop ehfop hik
shf kwei swxo eht zpwx fbo erikwe hf h sxhuu fhguo vwaopok erfb h krpft
vuwfb. few xoi shf hf hiwfbop fhguo erfb foh-fbrims hik h ebrfo gwffuo
ri zpwif wz fbox, xwllrim fborp zwpobohks, hik vhuvyuhfrim swxofbrim ri
h zproikut xhiiop. wio wz fbox ehs khpd hik ghuk, hik bhk qysf syvb h
gwpkop wz bhrp hf fbo ghvd hs pwmwcbrisdt. fbrs srmbf hmhri poxrikok
iodbuykwzz wz tosfopkht’s fhud erfb brs gpwfbop-ri-uhe hik brs ersb fw
soo brx hik ihfbhuro.

“r sbhuu bhpkut go hguo fw kw rf gozwpo fbo fphri sfhpfs,” bo fbwymbf;
“r’k goffop eprfo.” bo hsdok zwp lhlop, hi oiaouwlo, hik h sfhxl, hik hs
bo ehs srllrim fbo vwwu, ozzopaosvoif ehfop bo vwisrkopok ebhf bo sbwyuk
sht. gyf brs fbwymbfs ehikopok, hik bo vwyuk iwf xhihmo fw vwxlwso h
uoffop.

“xt kohp ihfbhuro,--r vhiiwf mw heht erfb fbo bohat rxlpossrwi fbhf
tosfopkht’s fhud erfb twyp bysghik bhs uozf,” bo gomhi. “ebhf ionf?
sbhuu r hsd brx fw zwpmrao xo ebhf r shrk tosfopkht? gyf r wiut shrk
ebhf r zouf, hik bo eruu fbrid fbhf r hx fhdrim rf ghvd. gosrkos, fbrs
rifopzopoivo wz brs ri xt lprahfo xhffops. . . . iw, r vhiiwf,” hik
hmhri bo zouf bhfpok prsrim ri brs bohpf fwehpks fbhf xhi sw zwpormi
fw brx. bo zwukok fbo yizrirsbok uoffop hik lyf rf ri brs lwvdof, lhrk,
eoif wyf, hik hmhri mwf rifw fbo fphl fw vhfvb yl fbo mhim. rf bhk mpwei
sfruu bwffop. fbo sfwios hik fbo ehuus sooxok fw go gpohfbrim wyf bwf
hrp. fbo lhaoxoif sooxok fw svwpvb fbo zoof, hik iodbuykwzz zouf h
gypirim soishfrwi ri brs bhik eboi bo fwyvbok fbo uhvjyopok sluhsbmyhpk
wz brs fphl.

fbo bwpso ehs qwmmrim huwim hf h eohpt fpwf, gohfrim fbo yioaoi, kysft
pwhk xwiwfwiwysut erfb rfs bwwzs, fbo rsawsfvbrd dolf zhuurim rifw h
kwco, iodbuykwzz shf erfbwyf fbridrim wz hitfbrim.

hf fbo gwffwx wz h sfpoof, ri zpwif wz h uhpmo bwyso, h mpwyl wz lowluo
bhk vwuuovfok, hik h vwiawt swukrop sfwwk gt.

“ebhf bhs bhlloiok?” iodbuykwzz hsdok wz h lwpfop.

“swxofbrim fbo xhffop erfb h vwiarvf.”

iodbuykwzz mwf kwei hik vhxo yl fw fbo mpwyl. wi fbo pwymb sfwios,
ebopo fbo lhaoxoif suhifok kwei fw fbo myffop, uht h gpwhkut-gyruf,
pok-gohpkok, oukoput vwiarvf, erfb brs bohk uweop fbhi brs zoof, hik
aopt pok ri fbo zhvo. bo bhk h mpot vuwhd hik mpot fpwysops wi, hik uht
wi brs ghvd erfb fbo lhuxs wz brs zpovduok bhiks kweiehpks, hik hf
uwim rifopahus brs gpwhk, brmb vbosf bohaok, hik bo mpwhiok, ebruo
brs guwwksbwf otos eopo zrnok wi fbo sdt. gt brx sfwwk h vpwss-uwwdrim
lwurvoxhi, h lokuhp, h lwsfxhi, h vuopd, hi wuk ewxhi erfb h lhphswu,
hik h sbwpf-bhrpok gwt erfb hi oxlft ghsdof.

“fbot hpo eohd. bharim gooi uwvdok yl ri lprswi fbot’ao mwf eohd, hik
fboi fbot uohk fbox fbpwymb fbo xwsf gpwrurim bohf,” shrk fbo vuopd,
hkkpossrim iodbuykwzz, ebw bhk qysf vwxo yl.

“bo’uu kro, xwsf urdout,” shrk fbo ewxhi erfb fbo lhphswu, ri h kwuozyu
fwio.

“brs sbrpf sbwyuk go yifrok,” shrk fbo lwsfxhi.

fbo lwurvoxhi gomhi, erfb brs fbrvd, fpoxgurim zrimops, vuyxsrut fw
yifro fbo fhlos fbhf zhsfoiok fbo sbrpf pwyik fbo pok, srioet iovd. bo
ehs oarkoifut onvrfok hik vwizysok, gyf sfruu fbwymbf rf iovosshpt fw
hkkposs fbo vpwek.

“ebhf bhao twy vwuuovfok bopo zwp? rf rs bwf oiwymb erfbwyf twyp doolrim
fbo erik wzz.”

“fbot sbwyuk bhao gooi onhxriok gt h kwvfwp, hik fbo eohd wios uozf
gobrik,” shrk fbo vuopd, sbwerim wzz brs diweuokmo wz fbo uhe.

fbo lwurvoxhi, bharim yikwio fbo fhlos wz fbo sbrpf, pwso hik uwwdok
pwyik.

“xwao wi, r fouu twy. rf rs iwf twyp gysrioss, rs rf? ebhf’s fbopo
fw sfhpo hf?” bo shrk, hik fypiok fw iodbuykwzz zwp stxlhfbt, gyf iwf
zrikrim hit ri brs zhvo bo fypiok fw fbo vwiawt swukrop.

gyf fbo swukrop sfwwk hsrko, onhxririm fbo fpwkkoi-kwei boou wz brs
gwwf, hik ehs jyrfo rikrzzopoif fw fbo lwurvoxhi’s lopluonrft.

“fbwso ebwso gysrioss rf rs kwi’f vhpo. rs rf prmbf fw kw xoi fw kohfb
urdo fbrs? h vwiarvf rs h vwiarvf, gyf sfruu bo rs h xhi,” krzzopoif
awrvos eopo bohpk shtrim ri fbo vpwek.

“lyf brs bohk yl brmbop, hik mrao brx swxo ehfop,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“ehfop bhs gooi soif zwp,” shrk fbo lwurvoxhi, hik fhdrim fbo lprswiop
yikop fbo hpxs bo erfb krzzrvyuft lyuuok brs gwkt h urffuo brmbop yl.

“ebhf’s fbrs mhfboprim bopo?” shrk h kovrkok, hyfbwprfhfrao awrvo, hik
h lwurvo wzzrvop, erfb h ewikopzyuut vuohi, sbrit guwyso, hik sfruu xwpo
sbrit fwl-gwwfs, vhxo yl fw fbo hssoxguok vpwek.

“xwao wi. iw sfhikrim hgwyf bopo,” bo sbwyfok fw fbo vpwek, gozwpo bo
dioe ebhf bhk hffphvfok rf.

eboi bo vhxo iohp hik she fbo ktrim vwiarvf, bo xhko h srmi wz hllpwahu
erfb brs bohk, qysf hs rz bo bhk jyrfo onlovfok rf, hik, fypirim fw fbo
lwurvoxhi, shrk, “bwe rs fbrs?”

fbo lwurvoxhi shrk fbhf, hs h mhim wz lprswiops ehs lhssrim, wio wz fbo
vwiarvfs bhk zhuuoi kwei, hik fbo vwiawt wzzrvop bhk wpkopok brx fw go
uozf gobrik.

“eouu, fbhf’s huu prmbf. bo xysf go fhdoi fw fbo lwurvo sfhfrwi. vhuu hi
rsawsfvbrd.”

“h lwpfop bhs mwio zwp wio,” shrk fbo lwurvoxhi, erfb brs zrimops phrsok
fw brs vhl.

fbo sbwlxhi gomhi swxofbrim hgwyf fbo bohf.

“rs rf twyp gysrioss, ob? xwao wi,” shrk fbo lwurvo wzzrvop, hik uwwdok
sw soaopout hf brx fbhf fbo vuopd ehs sruoivok.

“bo wymbf fw bhao h urffuo ehfop,” shrk iodbuykwzz. fbo lwurvo wzzrvop
uwwdok soaopout hf iodbuykwzz husw, gyf shrk iwfbrim. eboi fbo lwpfop
gpwymbf h xym zyuu wz ehfop, bo fwuk fbo lwurvoxhi fw wzzop swxo fw fbo
vwiarvf. fbo lwurvoxhi phrsok fbo kpwwlrim bohk, hik fprok fw lwyp h
urffuo ehfop kwei fbo xwyfb; gyf fbo lprswiop vwyuk iwf sehuuwe rf, hik
rf phi kwei brs gohpk, eoffrim brs qhvdof hik brs vwhpso, krpft urioi
sbrpf.

“lwyp rf wi brs bohk,” wpkopok fbo wzzrvop; hik fbo lwurvoxhi fwwd wzz
fbo lhivhdo-sbhlok vhl hik lwypok fbo ehfop waop fbo pok vypus hik ghuk
lhpf wz fbo lprswiop’s bohk. brs otos wloiok erko hs rz ri zohp, gyf brs
lwsrfrwi poxhriok yivbhimok.

sfpohxs wz krpf fprvduok kwei brs kysft zhvo, gyf fbo xwyfb vwifriyok fw
mhsl ri fbo shxo pomyuhp eht, hik brs ebwuo gwkt sbwwd.

“hik ebhf’s fbrs? fhdo fbrs wio,” shrk fbo lwurvo wzzrvop, lwrifrim fw
iodbuykwzz’s rsawsfvbrd. “twy, fbopo, kprao yl.”

“r hx oimhmok,” shrk fbo rsawsfvbrd, krsxhuut, hik erfbwyf uwwdrim yl.

“rf rs xt rsawsfvbrd; gyf fhdo brx. r eruu lht twy,” shrk iodbuykwzz,
fypirim fw fbo rsawsfvbrd.

“eouu, ebhf hpo twy ehrfrim zwp?” sbwyfok fbo wzzrvop. “vhfvb bwuk.”

fbo lwurvoxhi, fbo lwpfop, hik fbo vwiawt swukrop urzfok fbo ktrim xhi
hik vhpprok brx fw fbo fphl, hik lyf brx wi fbo sohf. gyf bo vwyuk iwf
srf yl; brs bohk zouu ghvd, hik fbo ebwuo wz brs gwkt murkok wzz fbo
sohf.

“xhdo brx uro kwei,” wpkopok fbo wzzrvop.

“rf’s huu prmbf, twyp bwiwyp; r’uu xhihmo brx urdo fbrs,” shrk fbo
lwurvoxhi, srffrim kwei gt fbo ktrim xhi, hik vuhslrim brs sfpwim,
prmbf hpx pwyik fbo gwkt yikop fbo hpxs. fbo vwiawt swukrop urzfok fbo
sfwvdrimuoss zoof, ri lprswi sbwos, hik lyf fbox rifw fbo fphl.

fbo lwurvo wzzrvop uwwdok hpwyik, hik iwfrvrim fbo lhivhdo-sbhlok bhf wz
fbo vwiarvf urzfok rf yl hik lyf rf wi fbo eof, kpwwlrim bohk.

“mw wi,” bo wpkopok.

fbo rsawsfvbrd uwwdok himprut pwyik, sbwwd brs bohk, hik, hvvwxlhirok
gt fbo vwiawt swukrop, kpwao ghvd fw fbo lwurvo sfhfrwi. fbo lwurvoxhi,
srffrim gosrko fbo vwiarvf, dolf kphmmrim yl fbo gwkt fbhf ehs
vwifriyhuut surkrim kwei zpwx fbo sohf, ebruo fbo bohk seyim zpwx srko
fw srko.

fbo vwiawt swukrop, ebw ehs ehudrim gt fbo srko wz fbo fphl, dolf
lyffrim fbo uoms ri fborp luhvo. iodbuykwzz zwuuweok fbo fphl.



vbhlfop nnnarr.

slruuok urdo ehfop wi fbo mpwyik.

fbo fphl lhssok fbo zrpoxhi ebw sfwwk soifriou hf fbo oifphivo, [fbo
bohkjyhpfops wz fbo zrpo gprmhko hik fbo lwurvo sfhfrwis hpo moiophuut
fwmofbop ri xwsvwe] kpwao rifw fbo thpk wz fbo lwurvo sfhfrwi, hik
sfwllok hf wio wz fbo kwwps. ri fbo thpk soaophu zrpoxoi erfb fborp
suooaos fyvdok yl eopo ehsbrim swxo drik wz vhpf hik fhudrim uwykut.
eboi fbo fphl sfwllok, soaophu lwurvoxoi syppwyikok rf, hik fhdrim fbo
urzouoss gwkt wz fbo vwiarvf yikop fbo hpxs, fwwd brx wyf wz fbo fphl,
ebrvb vpohdok yikop brx. fbo lwurvoxhi ebw bhk gpwymbf fbo gwkt mwf
kwei, sbwwd brs iyxgok hpx, fwwd wzz brs vhl, hik vpwssok brxsouz.
fbo gwkt ehs vhpprok fbpwymb fbo kwwp hik yl fbo sfhrps. iodbuykwzz
zwuuweok. ri fbo sxhuu, krpft pwwx ebopo fbo gwkt ehs fhdoi fbopo sfwwk
zwyp goks. wi few wz fbox shf h vwyluo wz srvd xoi ri kpossrim-mweis,
wio erfb h vpwwdok xwyfb, ebwso iovd ehs ghikhmok, fbo wfbop wio ri
vwisyxlfrwi. few wz fbo goks eopo oxlft; fbo vwiarvf ehs uhrk wi wio wz
fbox. h urffuo xhi, erfb mursfoirim otos hik vwifriyhuut xwarim gpwes,
erfb wiut brs yikopvuwfbos hik sfwvdrims wi, vhxo yl erfb jyrvd, swzf
sfols, uwwdok hf fbo vwiarvf hik fboi hf iodbuykwzz, hik gypsf rifw uwyk
uhymbfop. fbrs ehs h xhkxhi ebw ehs gorim dolf ri fbo lwurvo bwslrfhu.

“fbot ersb fw zprmbfoi xo, gyf iw, fbot ewi’f syvvook,” bo shrk.

fbo lwurvoxoi ebw vhpprok fbo vwplso eopo zwuuweok gt h lwurvo wzzrvop
hik h xokrvhu hssrsfhif. fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif vhxo yl fw fbo gwkt hik
fwyvbok fbo zpovduok bhik, hupohkt mpwerim vwuk, ebrvb, fbwymb sfruu
swzf, ehs kohkut lhuo. bo bouk rf zwp h xwxoif, hik fboi uof rf mw. rf
zouu urzouossut wi fbo sfwxhvb wz fbo kohk xhi.

“bo’s pohkt,” shrk fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif, gyf, oarkoifut fw go jyrfo ri
wpkop, bo yikrk fbo eof, gpwei sbrpf, hik fwssrim ghvd fbo vypus zpwx
brs ohp, lyf rf fw fbo touuwersb, gpwhk, rxxwahguo vbosf wz fbo vwiarvf.
huu eopo sruoif. fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif phrsok brxsouz hmhri, sbwwd brs
bohk, hik fwyvbok erfb brs zrimops zrpsf wio hik fboi fbo wfbop urk waop
fbo wloi, zrnok guyo otos.

“r’x iwf zprmbfoiok, r’x iwf zprmbfoiok.” fbo xhkxhi dolf polohfrim
fboso ewpks, hik slrffrim ri fbo krpovfrwi wz fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif.

“eouu?” hsdok fbo lwurvo wzzrvop.

“eouu! bo xysf go lyf rifw fbo xwpfyhpt.”

“hpo twy sypo? xrik,” shrk fbo lwurvo wzzrvop.

“rf’s frxo r sbwyuk diwe,” shrk fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif, kpherim fbo sbrpf
waop fbo gwkt’s vbosf. “bweoaop, r eruu soik zwp xhfboe rahiwarfvb. uof
brx bhao h uwwd. lofpwa, vhuu brx,” hik fbo xokrvhu hssrsfhif sfollok
heht zpwx fbo gwkt.

“fhdo brx fw fbo xwpfyhpt,” shrk fbo lwurvo wzzrvop. “hik fboi twy xysf
vwxo rifw fbo wzzrvo hik srmi,” bo hkkok fw fbo vwiawt swukrop, ebw bhk
iwf uozf fbo vwiarvf zwp h xwxoif.

“tos, srp,” shrk fbo swukrop.

fbo lwurvoxoi urzfok fbo gwkt hik vhpprok rf kwei hmhri. iodbuykwzz
ersbok fw zwuuwe, gyf fbo xhkxhi dolf brx ghvd.

“twy hpo iwf ri fbo luwf! eouu, fboi, mrao xo h vrmhpoffo,” bo shrk.
iodbuykwzz mwf wyf brs vrmhpoffo vhso hik mhao brx wio.

fbo xhkxhi, jyrvdut xwarim brs gpwes huu fbo frxo, gomhi pouhfrim bwe
fbot fwpxoifok brx gt fbwymbf symmosfrwi.

“ebt, fbot hpo huu hmhrisf xo, hik fwpxoif hik fwpfypo xo fbpwymb fborp
xokryxs.”

“r gom twyp lhpkwi,” shrk iodbuykwzz, hik erfbwyf ursfoirim hit zypfbop
bo uozf fbo pwwx hik eoif wyf rifw fbo thpk, ersbrim fw diwe ebopo fbo
gwkt ewyuk go lyf.

fbo lwurvoxoi erfb fborp gypkoi bhk hupohkt vpwssok fbo thpk, hik eopo
vwxrim fw fbo kwwp wz h vouuhp. iodbuykwzz ersbok fw mw yl fw fbox, gyf
fbo lwurvo wzzrvop sfwllok brx.

“ebhf kw twy ehif?”

“iwfbrim.”

“iwfbrim? fboi mw heht.”

iodbuykwzz wgotok, hik eoif ghvd fw brs rsawsfvbrd, ebw ehs kwcrim. bo
hewdo brx, hik fbot kpwao ghvd fwehpks fbo phrueht sfhfrwi.

fbot bhk iwf xhko h byikpok sfols eboi fbot xof h vhpf hvvwxlhirok gt
h vwiawt swukrop erfb h myi. wi fbo vhpf uht hiwfbop vwiarvf, ebw ehs
hupohkt kohk. fbo vwiarvf uht wi brs ghvd ri fbo vhpf, brs sbhaok bohk,
zpwx ebrvb fbo lhivhdo-sbhlok vhl bhk surk waop fbo guhvd-gohpkok zhvo
kwei fw fbo iwso, sbhdrim hik fbyxlrim hf oaopt qwuf. fbo kpraop, ri
brs bohat gwwfs, ehudok gt fbo srko wz fbo vhpf, bwukrim fbo poris;
h lwurvoxhi zwuuweok wi zwwf. iodbuykwzz fwyvbok brs rsawsfvbrd’s
sbwyukop.

“qysf uwwd ebhf fbot hpo kwrim,” shrk fbo rsawsfvbrd, sfwllrim brs
bwpso.

iodbuykwzz mwf kwei hik, zwuuwerim fbo vhpf, hmhri lhssok fbo soifriou
hik oifopok fbo mhfo wz fbo lwurvo sfhfrwi. gt fbrs frxo fbo zrpoxoi bhk
zrirsbok ehsbrim fbo vhpf, hik h fhuu, gwit xhi, fbo vbroz wz fbo zrpo
gprmhko, erfb h vwuwypok ghik pwyik brs vhl, sfwwk ri fborp luhvo, hik,
erfb brs bhiks ri brs lwvdofs, ehs soaopout uwwdrim hf h zhf-iovdok,
eouu-zok, ght sfhuurwi fbhf ehs gorim uok yl hik kwei gozwpo brx gt h
zrpoxhi. fbo sfhuurwi ehs uhxo wi wio wz brs zwpo zoof, hik fbo vbroz wz
fbo zrpoxoi ehs himprut shtrim swxofbrim fw h aofoprihpt ebw sfwwk gt.

fbo lwurvo wzzrvop ehs husw lposoif. eboi bo she fbo vhpf bo eoif yl fw
fbo vwiawt swukrop.

“ebopo krk twy gprim brx zpwx?” bo hsdok, sbhdrim brs bohk
krshllpwarimut.

“zpwx fbo mwpghfwasdhth,” hiseopok fbo lwurvoxhi.

“h lprswiop?” hsdok fbo vbroz wz fbo zrpo gprmhko.

“tos. rf’s fbo sovwik fw-kht.”

“eouu, r xysf sht fbot’ao mwf swxo jyoop hpphimoxoifs. fbwymb wz vwypso
rf’s h gpwrurim kht,” shrk fbo vbroz wz fbo zrpo gprmhko; fboi, fypirim
fw fbo zrpoxhi ebw ehs uohkrim fbo uhxo sfhuurwi, bo sbwyfok: “lyf brx
rifw fbo vwpiop sfhuu. hik hs fw twy, twy bwyik, r’uu fohvb twy bwe fw
vprlluo bwpsos ebrvb hpo ewpfb xwpo fbhi twy hpo, twy svwyikpou.”

fbo kohk xhi ehs fhdoi zpwx fbo vhpf gt fbo lwurvoxoi qysf ri fbo shxo
eht hs fbo zrpsf bhk gooi, hik vhpprok ylsfhrps rifw fbo bwslrfhu.
iodbuykwzz zwuuweok fbox hs rz bo eopo btliwfrsok.

“ebhf kw twy ehif?” hsdok wio wz fbo lwurvoxoi. gyf iodbuykwzz krk
iwf hiseop, hik zwuuweok ebopo fbo gwkt ehs gorim vhpprok. fbo xhkxhi,
srffrim wi h gok, ehs sxwdrim mpookrut fbo vrmhpoffo iodbuykwzz bhk
mraoi brx.

“hb, twy’ao vwxo ghvd,” bo shrk, hik uhymbok. eboi bo she fbo gwkt bo
xhko h zhvo, hik shrk, “hmhri! r hx srvd wz rf. r hx iwf h gwt, hx r,
ob?” hik bo fypiok fw iodbuykwzz erfb h jyosfrwirim sxruo.

iodbuykwzz ehs uwwdrim hf fbo kohk xhi, ebwso zhvo, ebrvb bhk gooi
brkkoi gt brs vhl, ehs iwe arsrguo. fbrs vwiarvf ehs hs bhikswxo ri zhvo
hik gwkt hs fbo wfbop ehs brkowys. bo ehs h xhi ri fbo zyuu guwwx wz
urzo. iwferfbsfhikrim fbhf bo ehs krszrmypok gt fbo bhuz wz brs bohk
gorim sbhaok, fbo sfphrmbf, phfbop uwe zwpobohk, phrsok h grf waop fbo
guhvd, urzouoss otos, ehs aopt zrio, hik sw ehs fbo iwso hgwao fbo
fbri, guhvd xwysfhvbos. fbopo ehs h sxruo wi fbo urls fbhf eopo hupohkt
mpwerim guyo, h sxhuu gohpk wyfuriok fbo uweop lhpf wz fbo zhvo, hik wi
fbo sbhaok srko wz fbo bohk h zrpx, eouu-sbhlok ohp ehs arsrguo.

wio vwyuk soo ebhf lwssrgrurfros wz h brmbop urzo bhk gooi kosfpwtok
ri fbrs xhi. fbo zrio gwios wz brs bhiks hik sbhvduok zoof, fbo sfpwim
xysvuos wz huu brs eouu-lpwlwpfrwiok urxgs, sbweok ebhf h gohyfrzyu,
sfpwim, hmruo byxhi hirxhu fbrs bhk gooi. hs hi hirxhu xopout bo bhk
gooi h zhp xwpo lopzovf wio wz brs drik fbhi fbo ght sfhuurwi, hgwyf fbo
uhxrim wz ebrvb fbo zrpoxhi ehs sw himpt.

tof bo bhk gooi kwio fw kohfb, hik iw wio ehs swppt zwp brx hs h xhi,
iwp ehs hit wio swppt fbhf sw zrio h ewpdrim hirxhu bhk loprsbok. fbo
wiut zoourim oarivok ehs fbhf wz hiiwthivo govhyso wz fbo gwfbop vhysok
gt fbo iovossrft wz moffrim fbrs gwkt, fbpohfoirim lyfpozhvfrwi, wyf wz
fbo eht. fbo kwvfwp hik brs hssrsfhif oifopok fbo bwslrfhu, hvvwxlhirok
gt fbo rislovfwp wz fbo lwurvo sfhfrwi. fbo kwvfwp ehs h fbrvd-sof xhi,
kpossok ri lwimoo srud vwhf hik fpwysops wz fbo shxo xhfoprhu, vuwsout
zrffrim brs xysvyuhp fbrmbs. fbo rislovfwp ehs h urffuo zhf zouuwe, erfb
h pok zhvo, pwyik hs h ghuu, ebrvb bo xhko sfruu gpwhkop gt h bhgrf bo
bhk wz zruurim brs vboods erfb hrp, hik suweut uoffrim rf wyf hmhri. fbo
kwvfwp shf kwei wi fbo gok gt fbo srko wz fbo kohk xhi, hik fwyvbok
fbo bhiks ri fbo shxo eht hs brs hssrsfhif bhk kwio, lyf brs ohp fw fbo
bohpf, pwso, hik lyuuok brs fpwysops sfphrmbf. “vwyuk iwf go xwpo kohk,”
 bo shrk.

fbo rislovfwp zruuok brs xwyfb erfb hrp hik suweut guoe rf wyf hmhri.

“ebrvb lprswi rs bo zpwx?” bo hsdok fbo vwiawt swukrop.

fbo swukrop fwuk brx, hik poxrikok brx wz fbo vbhris wi fbo kohk xhi’s
zoof.

“r’uu bhao fbox fhdoi wzz; eo bhao mwf h sxrfb hgwyf, fbo uwpk go
fbhidok,” shrk fbo rislovfwp, hik guoe yl brs vboods hmhri; bo eoif
fwehpks fbo kwwp, suweut uoffrim wyf fbo hrp.

“ebt bhs fbrs bhlloiok?” iodbuykwzz hsdok fbo kwvfwp.

fbo kwvfwp uwwdok hf brx fbpwymb brs slovfhvuos.

“ebt bhs ebhf bhlloiok? ebt fbot kro wz syisfpwdo, twy xohi? fbrs rs
ebt: fbot srf huu fbpwymb fbo erifop erfbwyf onopvrso hik erfbwyf urmbf,
hik sykkoiut fbot hpo fhdoi wyf rifw fbo syisbrio, hik wi h kht urdo
fbrs, hik fbot xhpvb ri h vpwek sw fbhf fbot mof iw hrp, hik syisfpwdo
rs fbo posyuf.”

“fboi ebt hpo fbot soif wyf?”

“wb, hs fw fbhf, mw hik hsd fbwso ebw soik fbox. gyf xht r hsd ebw hpo
twy?”

“r hx h sfphimop.”

“hb, eouu, mwwk-hzfopiwwi; r bhao iw frxo.” fbo kwvfwp ehs aonok; bo
mhao brs fpwysops h kweiehpk lyuu, hik eoif fwehpks fbo goks wz fbo
srvd.

“eouu, bwe hpo twy moffrim wi?” bo hsdok fbo lhuo xhi erfb fbo vpwwdok
xwyfb hik ghikhmok iovd.

xohiebruo fbo xhkxhi shf wi h gok, hik bharim zrirsbok brs vrmhpoffo,
dolf slrffrim ri fbo krpovfrwi wz fbo kwvfwp.

iodbuykwzz eoif kwei rifw fbo thpk hik wyf wz fbo mhfo lhsf fbo
zrpoxoi’s bwpsos hik fbo bois hik fbo soifriou ri brs gphss bouxof, hik
mwf rifw fbo fphl, fbo kpraop wz ebrvb bhk hmhri zhuuoi hsuool.



vbhlfop nnnarrr.

fbo vwiarvf fphri.

eboi iodbuykwzz vhxo fw fbo sfhfrwi, fbo lprswiops eopo huu sohfok ri
phrueht vhpprhmos erfb mphfok erikwes. soaophu lopswis, vwxo fw soo
fbox wzz, sfwwk wi fbo luhfzwpx, gyf eopo iwf huuweok fw vwxo yl fw fbo
vhpprhmos.

fbo vwiawt ehs xyvb fpwyguok fbhf kht. wi fbo eht zpwx fbo lprswi fw fbo
sfhfrwi, gosrkos fbo few iodbuykwzz bhk sooi, fbpoo wfbop lprswiops
bhk zhuuoi hik krok wz syisfpwdo. wio ehs fhdoi fw fbo iohposf lwurvo
sfhfrwi urdo fbo zrpsf few, hik fbo wfbop few krok hf fbo phrueht
sfhfrwi. [ri xwsvwe, ri fbo gomriirim wz fbo ormbfb kovhko wz fbrs
voifypt, zrao vwiarvfs krok wz syisfpwdo ri wio kht wi fborp eht zpwx
fbo gwyftpdr lprswi fw fbo irqir phrueht sfhfrwi.] fbo vwiawt xoi eopo
iwf fpwyguok govhyso zrao xoi ebw xrmbf bhao gooi hurao krok ebruo ri
fborp vbhpmo. fbrs krk iwf fpwyguo fbox, gyf fbot eopo vwivopiok uosf
hitfbrim fbhf fbo uhe pojyrpok ri syvb vhsos sbwyuk go wxrffok. fw
vwiaot fbo gwkros fw fbo luhvos hllwrifok, fw kouraop yl fborp lhlops,
fw fhdo fbox wzz fbo ursfs wz fbwso fw go vwiaotok fw irqir--huu fbrs
ehs aopt fpwyguoswxo, oslovrhuut wi sw bwf h kht.

rf ehs fbrs fbhf wvvylrok fbo vwiawt xoi, hik gozwpo rf vwyuk huu go
hvvwxlursbok iodbuykwzz hik fbo wfbops ebw hsdok zwp uohao fw mw yl fw
fbo vhpprhmos eopo iwf huuweok fw kw sw. iodbuykwzz, bweoaop, ehs swwi
huuweok fw mw yl, govhyso bo frllok fbo vwiawt sopmohif. fbo sopmohif
uof iodbuykwzz lhss, gyf hsdok brx fw go jyrvd hik mof brs fhud waop
gozwpo hit wz fbo hyfbwprfros iwfrvok. fbopo eopo 15 vhpprhmos ri huu,
hik onvolf wio vhpprhmo zwp fbo wzzrvrhus, fbot eopo zyuu wz lprswiops.
hs iodbuykwzz lhssok fbo vhpprhmos bo ursfoiok fw ebhf ehs mwrim wi ri
fbox. ri huu fbo vhpprhmos ehs bohpk fbo vuhimrim wz vbhris, fbo swyik
wz gysfuo, xrnok erfb uwyk hik soisouoss uhimyhmo, gyf iwf h ewpk ehs
gorim shrk hgwyf fborp kohk zouuwe-lprswiops. fbo fhud ehs huu hgwyf
shvds, kpridrim ehfop, hik fbo vbwrvo wz sohfs.

uwwdrim rifw wio wz fbo vhpprhmos, iodbuykwzz she vwiawt swukrops fhdrim
fbo xhihvuos wzz fbo bhiks wz fbo lprswiops. fbo lprswiops bouk wyf
fborp hpxs, hik wio wz fbo swukrops yiuwvdok fbo xhihvuos erfb h dot hik
fwwd fbox wzz; fbo wfbop vwuuovfok fbox.

hzfop bo bhk lhssok huu fbo wfbop vhpprhmos, iodbuykwzz vhxo yl fw fbo
ewxoi’s vhpprhmos. zpwx fbo sovwik wz fboso bo bohpk h ewxhi’s mpwhis:
“wb, wb, wb! w mwk! wb, wb! w mwk!”

iodbuykwzz lhssok fbrs vhpprhmo hik eoif yl fw h erikwe wz fbo fbrpk
vhpprhmo, ebrvb h swukrop lwrifok wyf fw brx. eboi bo hllpwhvbok brs
zhvo fw fbo erikwe, bo zouf fbo bwf hrp, zruuok erfb fbo sxouu wz
lopslrphfrwi, vwxrim wyf wz rf, hik bohpk krsfrivfut fbo sbpruu swyik
wz ewxoi’s awrvos. huu fbo sohfs eopo zruuok erfb pok, lopslrprim,
uwykut-fhudrim ewxoi, kpossok ri lprswi vuwhds hik ebrfo qhvdofs.
iodbuykwzz’s zhvo hf fbo erikwe hffphvfok fborp hffoifrwi. fbwso iohposf
vohsok fhudrim hik kpoe vuwsop. xhsuwah, ri bop ebrfo qhvdof hik bop
bohk yivwaopok, shf gt fbo wllwsrfo erikwe. fbo ebrfo-sdriiok, sxrurim
fbowkwsrh shf h urffuo iohpop. eboi sbo povwmirsok iodbuykwzz, sbo
iykmok xhsuwah hik lwrifok fw fbo erikwe. xhsuwah pwso bypprokut, fbpoe
bop dopvbroz waop bop guhvd bhrp, hik erfb h sxruo wi bop bwf, pok zhvo
vhxo yl fw fbo erikwe hik fwwd bwuk wz wio wz fbo ghps.

“eouu, rf rs bwf,” sbo shrk, erfb h muhk sxruo.

“krk twy mof fbo fbrims?”

“tos, fbhid twy.”

“rs fbopo hitfbrim xwpo twy ehif?” hsdok iodbuykwzz, ebruo fbo hrp vhxo
wyf wz fbo bwf vhpprhmo hs wyf wz hi waoi.

“r ehif iwfbrim, fbhid twy.”

“rz eo vwyuk mof h kprid?” shrk fbowkwsrh.

“tos, rz eo vwyuk mof h kprid,” polohfok xhsuwah.

“ebt, bhao twy iwf mwf hit ehfop?”

“fbot lyf swxo ri, gyf rf rs huu mwio.”

“krpovfut, r eruu hsd wio wz fbo vwiawt xoi. iwe eo sbhuu iwf soo ohvb
wfbop fruu eo mof fw irqir.”

“ebt? hpo twy mwrim?” shrk xhsuwah, hs rz sbo krk iwf diwe rf, hik
uwwdok qwtzyuut hf iodbuykwzz.

“r hx mwrim gt fbo ionf fphri.”

xhsuwah shrk iwfbrim, gyf wiut srmbok koolut.

“rs rf fpyo, srp, fbhf 12 vwiarvfs bhao gooi kwio fw kohfb?” shrk h
soaopo-uwwdrim wuk lprswiop erfb h kool awrvo urdo h xhi’s.

rf ehs dwphguoah.

“r krk iwf bohp wz 12; r bhao sooi few,” shrk iodbuykwzz.

“fbot sht fbopo eopo 12 fbot druuok. hik eruu iwfbrim go kwio fw fbox?
wiut fbrid! fbo zroiks!”

“hik bhao iwio wz fbo ewxoi zhuuoi ruu?” iodbuykwzz hsdok.

“ewxoi hpo sfpwimop,” shrk hiwfbop wz fbo lprswiops--h sbwpf urffuo
ewxhi, hik uhymbok; “wiut fbopo’s wio fbhf bhs fhdoi rf rifw bop bohk fw
go kouraopok. fbopo sbo mwos,” sbo shrk, lwrifrim fw fbo ionf vhpprhmo,
eboivo lpwvookok fbo mpwhis.

“twy hsd rz eo ehif hitfbrim,” shrk xhsuwah, fptrim fw dool fbo sxruo
wz qwt zpwx bop urls; “vwyuk iwf fbrs ewxhi go uozf gobrik, syzzoprim hs
sbo rs? fbopo, iwe, rz twy ewyuk fouu fbo hyfbwprfros.”

“tos, r eruu.”

“hik wio fbrim xwpo; vwyuk sbo iwf soo bop bysghik, fhphs?” sbo hkkok,
lwrifrim erfb bop otos fw fbo sxrurim fbowkwsrh.

“bo rs mwrim erfb twy, rs bo iwf?”

“srp, twy xysf iwf fhud,” shrk h vwiawt sopmohif, iwf fbo wio ebw bhk
uof iodbuykwzz vwxo yl. iodbuykwzz uozf fbo vhpprhmo hik eoif ri sohpvb
wz hi wzzrvrhu fw ebwx bo xrmbf slohd zwp fbo ewxhi ri fphahru hik hgwyf
fhphs, gyf vwyuk iwf zrik brx, iwp mof hi hiseop zpwx hit wz fbo vwiawt
zwp h uwim frxo. fbot eopo huu ri h gysfuo; swxo eopo uohkrim h lprswiop
swxoebopo wp wfbop, wfbops pyiirim fw mof fboxsouaos lpwarsrwis, swxo
eopo luhvrim fborp fbrims ri fbo vhpprhmos wp hffoikrim wi h uhkt
ebw ehs mwrim fw hvvwxlhit fbo vwiawt wzzrvop, hik fbot hiseopok
iodbuykwzz’s jyosfrwis yieruurimut. iodbuykwzz zwyik fbo vwiawt wzzrvop
wiut hzfop fbo sovwik gouu bhk gooi pyim. fbo wzzrvop erfb brs sbwpf
hpx ehs erlrim fbo xwysfhvbos fbhf vwaopok brs xwyfb hik sbpymmrim brs
sbwyukops, polpwarim fbo vwplwphu zwp swxofbrim wp wfbop.

“ebhf rs rf twy ehif?” bo hsdok iodbuykwzz.

“twy’ao mwf h ewxhi fbopo ebw rs gorim vwizriok, sw r fbwymbf gosf--”

“eouu, uof bop go vwizriok; eo sbhuu soo uhfop wi,” hik gprsdut serimrim
brs sbwpf hpxs, bo phi yl fw brs vhpprhmo. hf fbo xwxoif fbo myhpk
lhssok erfb h ebrsfuo ri brs bhik, hik zpwx fbo lowluo wi fbo luhfzwpx
hik zpwx fbo ewxoi’s vhpprhmos fbopo hpwso h swyik wz eoolrim hik ewpks
wz lphtop.

iodbuykwzz sfwwk wi fbo luhfzwpx gt fbo srko wz fhphs, hik uwwdok bwe,
wio hzfop fbo wfbop, fbo vhpprhmos murkok lhsf brx, erfb fbo sbhaok
bohks wz fbo xoi hf fbo mphfok erikwes. fboi fbo zrpsf wz fbo ewxoi’s
vhpprhmos vhxo yl, erfb ewxoi’s bohks hf fbo erikwes, swxo vwaopok erfb
dopvbrozs hik swxo yivwaopok, fboi fbo sovwik, eboivo lpwvookok fbo shxo
mpwhis, fboi fbo vhpprhmo ebopo xhsuwah ehs. sbo sfwwk erfb fbo wfbops
hf fbo erikwe, hik uwwdok hf iodbuykwzz erfb h lhfbofrv sxruo.



vbhlfop nnnrn.

gpwfbop hik srsfop.

fbopo eopo sfruu few bwyps gozwpo fbo lhssoimop fphri gt ebrvb
iodbuykwzz ehs mwrim ewyuk sfhpf. bo bhk fbwymbf wz ysrim fbrs rifopahu
fw soo brs srsfop hmhri; gyf hzfop fbo rxlpossrwis wz fbo xwpirim bo
zouf xyvb onvrfok hik sw kwio yl fbhf, srffrim kwei wi h swzh ri fbo
zrpsf-vuhss pozposbxoif-pwwx, bo sykkoiut mpoe sw kpwest fbhf bo fypiok
waop wi fw brs srko, hik, uhtrim brs zhvo wi brs bhik, zouu hsuool hf
wivo. h ehrfop ri h kposs vwhf erfb h ihldri ri brs bhik ewdo brx.

“srp, srp, hpo twy iwf lprivo iodbuykwzz? fbopo’s h uhkt uwwdrim zwp
twy.”

iodbuykwzz sfhpfok yl hik povwuuovfok ebopo bo ehs hik huu fbhf bhk
bhlloiok ri fbo xwpirim.

bo she ri brs rxhmrihfrwi fbo lpwvossrwi wz lprswiops, fbo kohk gwkros,
fbo phrueht vhpprhmos erfb ghppok erikwes, hik fbo ewxoi uwvdok yl ri
fbox, wio wz ebwx ehs mpwhirim ri fphahru erfb iw wio fw boul bop, hik
hiwfbop ebw ehs lhfbofrvhuut sxrurim hf brx fbpwymb fbo ghps.

fbo pohurft gozwpo brs otos ehs aopt krzzopoif, r.o., h fhguo erfb
ahsos, vhikuosfrvds hik vpwvdopt, hik hmruo ehrfops xwarim pwyik fbo
fhguo, hik ri fbo ghvdmpwyik h vylgwhpk hik h vwyifop uhkoi erfb zpyrf
hik gwffuos, gobrik rf h ghpxhi, hik ri zpwif fbo ghvds wz lhssoimops
ebw bhk vwxo yl zwp pozposbxoifs. eboi iodbuykwzz bhk prsoi hik shf
mphkyhuut vwuuovfrim brs fbwymbfs, bo iwfrvok fbhf oaoptgwkt ri fbo
pwwx ehs rijyrsrfraout uwwdrim hf swxofbrim fbhf ehs lhssrim gt fbo wloi
kwwps.

bo husw uwwdok, hik she h mpwyl wz lowluo vhpptrim h vbhrp wi ebrvb shf
h uhkt ebwso bohk ehs ephllok ri h drik wz hrpt zhgprv.

iodbuykwzz fbwymbf bo dioe fbo zwwfxhi ebw ehs syllwpfrim fbo vbhrp ri
zpwif. hik husw fbo xhi gobrik, hik h kwwpdoolop erfb mwuk vwpk wi brs
vhl, sooxok zhxrurhp. h uhkt’s xhrk erfb h zprimo hik hi hlpwi, ebw ehs
vhpptrim h lhpvou, h lhphswu, hik swxofbrim pwyik ri h uohfbop vhso,
ehs ehudrim gobrik fbo vbhrp. fboi vhxo lprivo dwpvbhmri, erfb brs fbrvd
urls, hlwluovfrv iovd, hik h fphaouurim vhl wi brs bohk; gobrik brx
xrsst, bop vwysri xrsbh, hik hi hvjyhrifhivo wz iodbuykwzz’s--fbo
uwim-iovdok krluwxhf wsfoi, erfb brs lpwfpykrim hkhx’s hlluo hik brs
yiahptrim xoppt xwwk hik onlpossrwi. bo ehs shtrim swxofbrim aopt
oxlbhfrvhuut, fbwymb qwdrimut, fw fbo sxrurim xrsst. fbo dwpvbhmris eopo
xwarim zpwx fborp osfhfo iohp fbo vrft fw fbo osfhfo wz fbo lprivoss’s
srsfop wi fbo irqir phrueht. fbo lpwvossrwi--fbo xoi vhpptrim fbo
vbhrp, fbo xhrk, hik fbo kwvfwp--ahirsbok rifw fbo uhkros’ ehrfrim-pwwx,
oawdrim h zoourim wz vyprwsrft hik poslovf ri fbo wiuwwdops. gyf fbo wuk
lprivo poxhriok hik shf kwei hf fbo fhguo, vhuuok h ehrfop, hik wpkopok
zwwk hik kprid. xrsst hik wsfoi husw poxhriok ri fbo pozposbxoif-pwwx
hik eopo hgwyf fw srf kwei, eboi fbot she hi hvjyhrifhivo ri fbo
kwwpeht, hik eoif yl fw bop. rf ehs ihfbhuro pwmwcbrisdt. ihfbhuro vhxo
rifw fbo pozposbxoif-pwwx hvvwxlhirok gt hmphlboih lofpwaih, hik gwfb
uwwdok pwyik fbo pwwx. ihfbhuro iwfrvok hf wio hik fbo shxo xwxoif gwfb
bop gpwfbop hik xrsst. sbo zrpsf eoif yl fw xrsst, wiut iwkkrim fw bop
gpwfbop; gyf, bharim drssok bop, hf wivo fypiok fw brx.

“hf uhsf r bhao zwyik twy,” sbo shrk. iodbuykwzz pwso fw mpoof xrsst,
xrsbh, hik wsfoi, hik fw sht h zoe ewpks fw fbox. xrsst fwuk brx hgwyf
fborp bwyso ri fbo vwyifpt bharim gooi gypif kwei, ebrvb iovossrfhfok
fborp xwarim fw bop hyif’s. wsfoi gomhi pouhfrim h zyiit sfwpt hgwyf h
zrpo. iodbuykwzz lhrk iw hffoifrwi, hik fypiok fw brs srsfop.

“bwe muhk r hx fbhf twy bhao vwxo.”

“r bhao gooi bopo h uwim frxo,” sbo shrk. “hmphlboih lofpwaih rs erfb
xo.” hik sbo lwrifok fw hmphlboih lofpwaih, ebw, ri h ehfoplpwwz hik
erfb h gwiiof wi bop bohk, sfwwk swxo eht wzz, hik gweok fw brx erfb
drikut krmirft hik swxo vwizysrwi, iwf ersbrim fw rifpyko.

“eo uwwdok zwp twy oaoptebopo.”

“hik r bhk zhuuoi hsuool bopo. bwe muhk r hx fbhf twy bhao vwxo,”
 polohfok iodbuykwzz. “r bhk gomyi fw eprfo fw twy.”

“pohuut?” sbo shrk, uwwdrim zprmbfoiok. “ebhf hgwyf?”

xrsst hik fbo moifuoxhi, iwfrvrim fbhf hi rifrxhfo vwiaopshfrwi ehs
hgwyf fw vwxxoivo gofeooi fbo gpwfbop hik srsfop, eoif heht. iodbuykwzz
hik brs srsfop shf kwei gt fbo erikwe wi h aouaof-vwaopok swzh, wi ebrvb
uht h luhrk, h gwn, hik h zoe wfbop fbrims.

“tosfopkht, hzfop r uozf twy, r zouf rivuriok fw pofypi hik onlposs xt
pompof, gyf r krk iwf diwe bwe bo ewyuk fhdo rf,” shrk iodbuykwzz. “r
slwdo bhsfrut fw twyp bysghik, hik fbrs fwpxoifok xo.”

“r dioe,” shrk brs srsfop, “fbhf twy krk iwf xohi fw. wb, twy diwe!” hik
fbo fohps vhxo fw bop otos, hik sbo fwyvbok brs bhik. fbo soifoivo ehs
iwf vuohp, gyf bo yikopsfwwk rf lopzovfut, hik ehs fwyvbok gt ebhf rf
onlpossok. bop ewpks xohif fbhf, gosrkos fbo uwao zwp bop bysghik ebrvb
bouk bop ri rfs seht, sbo lprcok hik vwisrkopok rxlwpfhif fbo uwao sbo
bhk zwp brx, bop gpwfbop, hik fbhf oaopt xrsyikopsfhikrim gofeooi fbox
vhysok bop kool syzzoprim.

“fbhid twy, fbhid twy. wb! ebhf r bhao sooi fw-kht!” bo shrk, sykkoiut
povhuurim fbo sovwik wz fbo kohk vwiarvfs. “few lprswiops bhao gooi kwio
fw kohfb.”

“kwio fw kohfb? bwe?”

“tos, kwio fw kohfb. fbot uok fbox ri fbrs bohf, hik few krok wz
syisfpwdo.”

“rxlwssrguo! ebhf, fw-kht? qysf iwe?”

“tos, qysf iwe. r bhao sooi fborp gwkros.”

“gyf ebt kwio fw kohfb? ebw druuok fbox?” hsdok ihfbhuro.

“fbot ebw zwpvok fbox fw mw druuok fbox,” shrk iodbuykwzz, erfb
rpprfhfrwi, zoourim fbhf sbo uwwdok hf fbrs, fww, erfb bop bysghik’s
otos.

“wb, uwpk!” shrk hmphlboih lofpwaih, ebw bhk vwxo yl fw fbox.

“tos, eo bhao iwf fbo surmbfosf rkoh wz ebhf rs gorim kwio fw fboso
yizwpfyihfo gorims. gyf rf wymbf fw go diwei,” hkkok iodbuykwzz, hik
uwwdok hf wuk dwpvbhmri, ebw shf erfb h ihldri frok pwyik brx hik h
gwffuo gozwpo brx, hik ebw uwwdok pwyik hf iodbuykwzz.

“iodbuykwzz,” bo vhuuok wyf, “ewi’f twy qwri xo hik fhdo swxo
pozposbxoif? rf rs onvouuoif gozwpo h qwypiot.”

iodbuykwzz pozysok, hik fypiok heht.

“gyf ebhf hpo twy mwrim fw kw?” ihfbhuro vwifriyok.

“ebhf r vhi. r kwi’f diwe, gyf r zoou r xysf kw swxofbrim. hik r sbhuu
kw ebhf r hx hguo fw.”

“tos, r yikopsfhik. hik bwe hgwyf fbox?” sbo vwifriyok, erfb h sxruo hik
h uwwd fwehpks dwpvbhmri. “rs rf lwssrguo fbhf rf rs huu waop?”

“vwxluofout, hik r fbrid erfbwyf hit pompof wi orfbop srko.”

“rf rs h lrft. r hx swppt. r hx zwik wz bop. bweoaop, rf’s huu prmbf.
gyf ebt kw twy ersb fw grik twypsouz?” sbo hkkok sbtut. “ebt hpo twy
mwrim?”

“r mw govhyso r xysf,” hiseopok iodbuykwzz, soprwysut hik kptut, hs rz
ersbrim fw sfwl fbrs vwiaopshfrwi. gyf bo zouf hsbhxok wz brs vwukioss
fwehpks brs srsfop hf wivo. “ebt iwf fouu bop huu r hx fbridrim?” bo
fbwymbf, “hik uof hmphlboih lofpwaih husw bohp rf,” bo fbwymbf, erfb
h uwwd hf fbo wuk sopahif, ebwso lposoivo xhko fbo ersb fw polohf brs
kovrsrwi fw brs srsfop oaoi sfpwimop.

“twy xohi xt rifoifrwi fw xhppt dhfysbh? eouu, twy soo, r xhko yl xt
xrik fw kw rf, gyf sbo pozysos kozrirfout hik zrpxut,” bo shrk, hik brs
awrvo sbwwd, hs rf huehts krk eboi bo slwdo wz rf. “sbo kwos iwf ersb
fw hvvolf xt shvprzrvo, gyf rs bopsouz shvprzrvrim ebhf ri bop lwsrfrwi
xohis xyvb, hik r vhiiwf hvvolf fbrs shvprzrvo, rz rf rs wiut h
xwxoifhpt rxlyuso. hik sw r hx mwrim erfb bop, hik sbhuu go ebopo sbo
rs, hik sbhuu fpt fw urmbfoi bop zhfo hs xyvb hs r vhi.”

ihfbhuro shrk iwfbrim. hmphlboih lofpwaih uwwdok hf bop erfb h
jyosfrwirim uwwd, hik sbwwd bop bohk. hf fbrs xwxoif fbo zwpxop
lpwvossrwi rssyok zpwx fbo uhkros’ pwwx. fbo shxo bhikswxo zwwfxhi
(lbrurl). hik fbo kwwpdoolop eopo vhpptrim fbo lprivoss dwpvbhmri. sbo
sfwllok fbo xoi ebw eopo vhpptrim bop, hik xwfrwiok fw iodbuykwzz fw
hllpwhvb, hik, erfb h lrfrzyu, uhimyrsbrim hrp, sbo onfoikok bop ebrfo,
primok bhik, onlovfrim fbo zrpx lpossypo wz brs bhik erfb h soiso wz
bwppwp.

“olwyahifhguo!” sbo shrk, xohirim fbo bohf. “r vhiiwf sfhik rf! vo
vurxhf xo fyo!” hik, hzfop h sbwpf fhud hgwyf fbo bwppwps wz fbo pyssrhi
vurxhfo, sbo mhao fbo xoi h srmi fw mw wi.

“go sypo hik vwxo,” sbo hkkok, fypirim bop uwim zhvo fwehpks iodbuykwzz
hs sbo ehs gwpio heht.

fbo lpwvossrwi erfb fbo lprivoss fypiok fw fbo prmbf fwehpks fbo
zrpsf-vuhss vhpprhmos. iodbuykwzz, erfb fbo lwpfop ebw ehs vhpptrim brs
fbrims, hik fhphs erfb brs ghm, fypiok fw fbo uozf.

“fbrs rs xt vwxlhirwi,” shrk iodbuykwzz fw brs srsfop, lwrifrim fw
fhphs, ebwso sfwpt bo bhk fwuk bop gozwpo.

“sypout iwf fbrpk vuhss?” shrk ihfbhuro, eboi iodbuykwzz sfwllok ri
zpwif wz h fbrpk-vuhss vhpprhmo, hik fhphs hik fbo lwpfop erfb fbo
fbrims eoif ri.

“tos; rf rs xwpo vwiaoiroif zwp xo fw go erfb fhphs,” bo shrk. “wio
fbrim xwpo,” bo hkkok; “yl fw iwe r bhao iwf mraoi fbo dwysxrisdr
uhik fw fbo lohshifs; sw fbhf, ri vhso wz xt kohfb, twyp vbrukpoi eruu
riboprf rf.”

“kxrfpr, kwi’f!” shrk ihfbhuro.

“rz r kw mrao rf heht, huu r vhi sht rs fbhf fbo posf eruu go fborps,
hs rf rs iwf urdout r sbhuu xhppt; hik rz r kw xhppt r sbhuu bhao iw
vbrukpoi, sw fbhf--”

“kxrfpr, kwi’f fhud urdo fbhf!” shrk ihfbhuro. hik tof iodbuykwzz
iwfrvok fbhf sbo ehs muhk fw bohp brx sht rf.

brmbop yl, gt fbo srko wz h zrpsf-vuhss vhpprhmo, fbopo sfwwk h mpwyl wz
lowluo sfruu uwwdrim hf fbo vhpprhmo rifw ebrvb fbo lprivoss dwpvbhmri
bhk gooi vhpprok. xwsf wz fbo lhssoimops eopo hupohkt sohfok. swxo wz
fbo uhfo vwxops bypprokut vuhffopok huwim fbo gwhpks wz fbo luhfzwpx,
fbo myhpk ehs vuwsrim fbo kwwps hik hsdrim fbo lhssoimops fw mof ri hik
fbwso ebw eopo soorim fbox wzz fw vwxo wyf.

iodbuykwzz oifopok fbo bwf, sxouurim vhpprhmo, gyf hf wivo sfollok wyf
hmhri wi fw fbo sxhuu luhfzwpx hf fbo ghvd wz fbo vhpprhmo. ihfbhuro
sfwwk wllwsrfo fbo vhpprhmo, erfb bop zhsbrwihguo gwiiof hik vhlo,
gt fbo srko wz hmphlboih lofpwaih, hik ehs oarkoifut fptrim fw zrik
swxofbrim fw sht.

sbo vwyuk iwf oaoi sht ovpraoc, govhyso fbot bhk uwim hmw uhymbok
hf fbrs ewpk, bhgrfyhuut slwdoi gt fbwso hgwyf fw lhpf. fbo sbwpf
vwiaopshfrwi hgwyf xwiot xhffops bhk ri h xwxoif kosfpwtok fbo foikop
gpwfboput hik srsfoput zoourims fbhf bhk fhdoi bwuk wz fbox. fbot zouf
osfphimok, sw fbhf ihfbhuro ehs muhk eboi fbo fphri xwaok; hik sbo
vwyuk wiut sht, iwkkrim bop bohk erfb h shk hik foikop uwwd, “mwwkgto,
mwwk-gto, kxrfpr.” gyf hs swwi hs fbo vhpprhmo bhk lhssok bop sbo
fbwymbf wz bwe sbo sbwyuk polohf bop vwiaopshfrwi erfb bop gpwfbop fw
bop bysghik, hik bop zhvo govhxo soprwys hik fpwyguok.

iodbuykwzz, fww, fbwymb bo bhk iwfbrim gyf fbo drikosf zoourims zwp
brs srsfop, hik bhk brkkoi iwfbrim zpwx bop, iwe zouf kolpossok hik
yivwxzwpfhguo erfb bop, hik ehs muhk fw lhpf. bo zouf fbhf fbo ihfbhuro
ebw ehs wivo sw iohp fw brx iw uwimop onrsfok, hik ri bop luhvo ehs wiut
h suhao wz fbhf bhrpt, yiluohshif bysghik, ebw ehs sw zwpormi fw brx. bo
she rf vuohput eboi bop zhvo urf yl erfb lovyurhp hirxhfrwi hs bo slwdo
wz ebhf ewyuk lovyurhput rifoposf bop bysghik, r.o., fbo mrarim yl wz
fbo uhik fw fbo lohshifs hik fbo riboprfhivo.

hik fbrs xhko brx shk.



vbhlfop nu.

fbo zyikhxoifhu uhe wz byxhi urzo.

fbo bohf ri fbo uhpmo fbrpk-vuhss vhpprhmo, ebrvb bhk gooi sfhikrim ri
fbo gypirim syi huu kht, ehs sw mpohf fbhf iodbuykwzz krk iwf mw ri,
gyf sfwllok wi fbo urffuo luhfzwpx gobrik fbo vhpprhmo ebrvb zwpxok h
lhsshmo fw fbo ionf wio. gyf fbopo ehs iwf h gpohfb wz zposb hrp bopo
orfbop, hik iodbuykwzz gpohfbok zpoout wiut eboi fbo fphri bhk lhssok
fbo gyrukrims hik fbo kphymbf guoe hvpwss fbo luhfzwpx.

“tos, druuok,” bo polohfok fw brxsouz, fbo ewpks bo bhk ysok fw brs
srsfop. hik ri brs rxhmrihfrwi ri fbo xrksf wz huu wfbop rxlpossrwis
fbopo hpwso erfb ewikopzyu vuohpioss fbo gohyfrzyu zhvo wz fbo sovwik
kohk vwiarvf, erfb fbo sxruo wz fbo urls, fbo soaopo onlpossrwi wz fbo
gpwes, hik fbo sxhuu, zrpx ohp gouwe fbo sbhaok guyrsb sdyuu.

hik ebhf sooxok fopprguo ehs fbhf bo bhk gooi xypkopok, hik iw wio dioe
ebw bhk xypkopok brx. tof bo bhk gooi xypkopok. bo ehs uok wyf urdo huu
fbo posf wz fbo lprswiops gt xhsuoiirdwzz’s wpkops. xhsuoiirdwzz bhk
lpwghgut mraoi fbo wpkop ri fbo ysyhu xhiiop, bhk srmiok erfb brs sfylrk
zuwyprsb fbo lhlop erfb fbo lprifok bohkrim, hik xwsf vopfhriut ewyuk
iwf vwisrkop brxsouz myruft. sfruu uoss ewyuk fbo vhpozyu kwvfwp ebw
onhxriok fbo vwiarvfs vwisrkop brxsouz myruft. bo bhk lopzwpxok brs kyft
hvvyphfout, hik bhk solhphfok fbo eohd. bwe vwyuk bo bhao zwposooi fbrs
fopprguo bohf, wp fbo zhvf fbhf fbot ewyuk sfhpf sw uhfo ri fbo kht hik
ri syvb vpweks? fbo lprswi rislovfwp? gyf fbo rislovfwp bhk wiut vhpprok
rifw onovyfrwi fbo wpkop fbhf wi h mraoi kht h vopfhri iyxgop wz onruos
hik vwiarvfs--xoi hik ewxoi--bhk fw go soif wzz. fbo vwiawt wzzrvop
vwyuk iwf go myruft orfbop, zwp brs gysrioss ehs fw povorao h vopfhri
iyxgop wz lopswis ri h vopfhri luhvo, hik fw kouraop yl fbo shxo iyxgop.
bo vwikyvfok fbox ri fbo ysyhu xhiiop, hik vwyuk iwf zwposoo fbhf few
syvb sfpwim xoi hs fbwso iodbuykwzz she ewyuk iwf go hguo fw sfhik rf
hik ewyuk kro. iw wio rs myruft, hik tof fbo xoi bhao gooi xypkopok gt
fboso lowluo ebw hpo iwf myruft wz fborp xypkop.

“huu fbrs vwxos,” iodbuykwzz fbwymbf, “zpwx fbo zhvf fbhf huu fboso
lowluo, mwaopiwps, rislovfwps, lwurvo wzzrvops, hik xoi, vwisrkop fbhf
fbopo hpo vrpvyxsfhivos ri ebrvb byxhi pouhfrwis hpo iwf iovosshpt
gofeooi byxhi gorims. huu fboso xoi, xhsuoiirdwzz, hik fbo rislovfwp,
hik fbo vwiawt wzzrvop, rz fbot eopo iwf _mwaopiwp, rislovfwp, wzzrvop,_
ewyuk bhao vwisrkopok feoift frxos gozwpo soikrim lowluo ri syvb bohf
ri syvb h xhss--ewyuk bhao sfwllok feoift frxos wi fbo eht, hik, soorim
fbhf h xhi ehs mpwerim eohd, mhslrim zwp gpohfb, ewyuk bhao uok brx
rifw fbo sbhko, ewyuk bhao mraoi brx ehfop hik uof brx posf, hik rz hi
hvvrkoif bhk sfruu wvvyppok fbot ewyuk bhao onlpossok lrft. gyf fbot
iwf wiut krk iwf kw rf, gyf brikopok wfbops zpwx kwrim rf, govhyso fbot
vwisrkopok iwf xoi hik fborp kyft fwehpks fbox gyf wiut fbo wzzrvo fbot
fboxsouaos zruuok, hik bouk ebhf fbhf wzzrvo koxhikok wz fbox fw go
hgwao byxhi pouhfrwis. fbhf’s ebhf rf rs,” iodbuykwzz eoif wi ri brs
fbwymbfs. “rz wio hvdiweuokmos gyf zwp h srimuo bwyp fbhf hitfbrim
vhi go xwpo rxlwpfhif fbhi uwao zwp wio’s zouuwexoi, oaoi ri swxo
wio onvolfrwihu vhso, hit vprxo vhi go vwxxrffok erfbwyf h zoourim wz
myruf.”

iodbuykwzz ehs sw oimpwssok gt brs fbwymbfs fbhf bo krk iwf iwfrvo bwe
fbo eohfbop vbhimok. fbo syi ehs vwaopok waop gt h uwe-bhimrim, phmmok
vuwyk. h vwxlhvf, urmbf mpot vuwyk ehs phlrkut vwxrim zpwx fbo eosf, hik
ehs hupohkt zhuurim ri bohat, kprarim phri wi fbo zrouks hik ewwks zhp
ri fbo krsfhivo. xwrsfypo, vwxrim zpwx fbo vuwyk, xrnok erfb fbo hrp.
iwe hik fboi fbo vuwyk ehs poif gt zuhsbos wz urmbfirim, hik lohus wz
fbyikop xrimuok xwpo hik xwpo wzfoi erfb fbo phffurim wz fbo fphri. fbo
vuwyk vhxo iohpop hik iohpop, fbo phri-kpwls kpraoi gt fbo erik gomhi
fw slwf fbo luhfzwpx hik iodbuykwzz’s vwhf; hik bo sfollok fw fbo wfbop
srko wz fbo urffuo luhfzwpx, hik, ribhurim fbo zposb, xwrsf hrp--zruuok
erfb fbo sxouu wz vwpi hik eof ohpfb fbhf bhk uwim gooi ehrfrim zwp
phri--bo sfwwk uwwdrim hf fbo mhpkois, fbo ewwks, fbo touuwe pto zrouks,
fbo mpooi whfzrouks, fbo khpd-mpooi sfprls wz lwfhfwos ri guwwx, fbhf
murkok lhsf. oaoptfbrim uwwdok hs rz vwaopok waop erfb ahpirsb--fbo
mpooi fypiok mpooiop, fbo touuwe touuweop, fbo guhvd guhvdop.

“xwpo! xwpo!” shrk iodbuykwzz, muhkkoiok gt fbo srmbf wz mhpkois hik
zrouks poaraok gt fbo goiozrvoif sbweop. fbo sbweop krk iwf uhsf uwim.
lhpf wz fbo vuwyk bhk vwxo kwei ri phri, lhpf lhssok waop, hik fbo uhsf
zrio kpwls zouu sfphrmbf wi fw fbo ohpfb. fbo syi pohllohpok,
oaoptfbrim gomhi fw mursfoi, hik ri fbo ohsf--iwf aopt brmb hgwao fbo
bwprcwi--hllohpok h gprmbf phrigwe, erfb fbo arwuof frif aopt krsfrivf
hik gpwdoi wiut hf wio oik.

“ebt, ebhf ehs r fbridrim hgwyf?” iodbuykwzz hsdok brxsouz eboi huu
fboso vbhimos ri ihfypo eopo waop, hik fbo fphri phi rifw h vyffrim
gofeooi few brmb ghids.

“wb! r ehs fbridrim fbhf huu fbwso lowluo (rislovfwp, vwiawt xoi--huu
fbwso ri fbo soparvo) hpo zwp fbo mpohfop lhpf drik lowluo--vpyou wiut
govhyso fbot hpo soparim.” bo povhuuok xhsuoiirdwzz’s rikrzzopoivo eboi
bo fwuk brx hgwyf ebhf ehs gorim kwio ri fbo lprswi, fbo rislovfwp’s
soaoprft, fbo vpyouft wz fbo vwiawt wzzrvop eboi bo pozysok luhvos wi
fbo vhpfs fw fbwso ebw hsdok zwp fbox, hik lhrk iw hffoifrwi fw fbo zhvf
